1884-1960
Vol. 77, No. 45] [$4.00 Per Year In Advance Notional Weekly, World-Wide in Mluion, Definite in PollcY'-the Defense of the Ancient Gospel Delivered to the Sofnts.
Under Pruent Monogoment for 49 Years. " The Firm Foundation of God Jtondeth, haYing this seal: The Lord knoweth them that ore his."-2 Tim. 2:19.
THINGS TO CONSIDER--
A backslider is one who has drifted away from his steadfastness in the Christian life. Concerning them Peter says, "But it is happened unto them according to the true proverb, T he dog is turned to his own vomit again; and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire" (2 Peter 2:22).
As long as Christian people live on earth, God does not give them an honorable discharge from service in his kingdom. When men enlist under the Captain of their salvation it is for life.
The Lord does not only want people who have the courage to enlis t, but he wants those who have the courage to fight.
Some people who formally follow the Savior· look fine on dress parade, and respond gracefully on the drill ground, but try to find a pJace to hide when the real battle comes on.
Heaven is for the one who is faithful unto death. Many who started to heaven with a high hope, have already had their names blotted out out of the book of life. One's name may be left. in the church register after it is erased in heaven.
Peter further gives this description of backsliders, "These ar·e wells without water, clouds that are carried with a tempest, to whom the mist of darkness is reserved forever" (2 Peter 2 :17). And the same apostle further says, "For if alter they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior J esus Christ, they are again entangled therein and overcome, the latter end is worse with them than the beginning. For it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than after they have known it to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them" (2 Peter 2:20, 21).
Some people backslide through weakness, while others backslide through perverseness. The one who is so weak that he cannot resist temptation, and turns from the way of righteousness to the path of sin, exchanges the joys of heaven for the pleasures of earth. That kind of people have a very short range of vision-they cannot see very far ahead.
Total Failure The writer of the book of Hebrews says, "Follow pence with a ll men, and holiness, "without which no man shall sec the Lor d;looking diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God" (Heb. 12:12, 13). No one can be saved who does not make the right use of the grace of God.
In this connection it is propet· to inquire if Christians can fall from grace. "Lest a ny man fail of the grace of God" signifies that they can fall from grace, and finally be lost. And here is the answer in so many words. "Chdst is become of no effect unto you, whosoever of your are justiiied by the law: ye are fallen from grace" (Gal. 5:4).
Leaving the gospel and going back to the Jaw is the worst kind of backsliding. Every one who tt·ies to be saved by the law of Moses instead of the gospel of Christ fails of the grace of God.
And this is also in the Bible, "Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them a lso committed, and fell in one day three and twenty thousand." And this, "Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall." It is of no use for us to argue about anything that God says. When God says a man can fall, it is true whether a single person in the world believes it or not.
What must a backslider do to be saved? Some people have the plan of salvation turned around. They try to make it work backwards. They tell aliens to pray and those in Christ to be baptized. Peter told aliens to repent and be baptized (Acts 2:38). He told backsliders to repent and pray (Acts 8~13) .
W. M. Davis, 5842 Monticello, Dallas 6, Texas.
INSIDE THIS ISSUE Editorial: Some Suggestions on Caring for the Aged ................................. 706
"Remember the Alamo" . . ........................................ 707
"One Jesus, Who Was Dead" .................................... 708
"Communications Barrier'' ........... 709
Here Is a Bargain! ................................... 709
Coleman's Article on Music Strikes Responsive Chord .......... .. . ...... .. . . ... 710
There Is No Substitute for Prayer .. ...... . ......... 711
Our Blessed Privilege of Freedom of Worship .... 711
It Is Chr istian Loyalty, Not Prejudice ....................... 712
Aims in Teaching . .. ...... . ........................................ 713
SOME SUGGESTIONS ON -.~ ... -CARING FOR THE AGED Within recent -years much attention has been given to the care br' the aged. This is good. We would encourage ev8ey effort made by brethren to make the last days oi~'·aged saints more secure and more comfortable.
~
we would2 speak a word of encouragement to . the elders of CQ~gregations who seek, under their own oversight as....;elders, to care for the aged among the brethren. Old people must have a home, and some of them cannot provide one for themselves and have no relatives to provide it. The church can and should.
When the church does, the elders should supervise what the church does. Here is a home that meets all the requirements of a home. Yet there is no parent- child relationship nor is there a "parentis-en-loco" relationship. Thus far we have seen no indication from any source that the elders of the church cannot, as elders supervise what the church does in its efforts to care for the aged. Such should be borne in mind when we see or hear something about "elders canno~, as elders" do thus and so.
And thus at the outset we wish to make it crystal clear that we are in full sympathy with brethren who are trying to provide for the aged in such institutions.
Now, we think all should be reminded that institutional homes for the aged, child care arrangements, camps and a multitude of other such things are but incidentals and expedients. THEY ARE NOT ESSENTIALS.
If we did not use the means we are now using to care for the unfortunate, we would devise other means, for the command_ to care for them must be carried out if we wish to-go to heaven. We have seen a few instances where brethren insisted that the congregation support some incidental project, "just to show which side we are on." We. believe this to be a foolish course. If doing a thing this certain way is absolutely essential to going to heaven, then by all means do it, but if brethren have gone _along for years and years doing Uttle or nothing in this respect, it is the height of ridiculousness to wake up and get a11 excited and insist that the church be forced to "make a contribution to show which side we are on." This spirit is hurting the church in some places.
Now, concerning efforts to care for the aged we would make a suggestion, and commend a way of doing it that appeals to us personally. Brother Lesli~ Jameson of Ft. Worth is a fine Christian gentleman and good gospel preacher. For several years he di-
'106
rected Gunter Home for the Aged, a church sponsored home. In more recent years he has operated a private home for the aged in Forth Worth in which some forty aged people have been cared for, most all of whom are Christians. He has recently opened a second such home in Glen Rose, Texas. In both of these homes the aged receive the finest of Christian love and care, and worship services are conducted regularly for them.
We dare say that no church supported home among us excells either of these places in Christian care, love and environment. Brother Jameson is doing ·this work for the love he has fot aged saints and for the iLord. At the same time he is paying all his own bills, buying his own buildings, and making his own living.
In other words these Rest Homes are paying their own· way without asking churches for contributions either for maintenance, or services or buildings. With old age pensions and social securit~ this can be done in 90% or more of all instances and relieve the church of doing what it is not necessary to do in this respect.
Nowhere does the Bible teach that the church should create a situation just for the sake of having another project.
We have a rash of "homes" of different kinds springing up. In most instances they are the private proj~ct of an individual or a small group, who, after a beginning is made, then appeal to the congregations saying "this is your work-~ou care for it." That way we assume support of a lot of things we didn't want, and don't particularly need.
Brethren at Carlsbad, N. M.--Some individualshave come in possession of a piece of property and plan to start an "old folks home." They will run it as a. private enterprise, refusing contributions from churches, and expect to make it pay its own way.
A Christian sister in Cleburne, Texas, has for years operated such a home as a private and profitable business.
·In all of these homes the aged receive anything and everything they receive in church supported institutions.
The church is besieged with so many calls for help, we feel that as long as this need can be cared for by Christian people who are doing it because of a special love for the aged, as well as a means of livelihood, we should let private industry and private capital do it.
FIR11 FOUNDATION Reael Ll"mmon~~t. Edltol' Published weekly b~ the Firm Foundation Publishing House. :n 1 o Guadalupe Street, Au!Ztln, Texas. and entered as secbnd class matter April, 1886, at the Post Office at Austin, Texas, under Act of March 3. 1879. 1\IAILING ADDRESS Pn.111t Offlee Box r:. Aa•tln 01, Te:ms TERl\IS OF SUBSCRIPTIONS SinglP. subscriptions: four dollars per year in advance; five years, flfteen dollars: in clubs of five or more sent by one person at one time. three dollars each: Foreign subscriptions, $4.50.
BUNDLE RATES In bundles of ten to fifty copl_es, sent to one ad~ress: five cents per copy, 100 or more copies to one address, $_3.50 per 100.
FIRM FOUNDATION-NOVEMBER 8, 1960
"REMEMBER THE ALAMO" LEROY BROWNLOW Ugly efforts are being made to smear as religious bigots any and all who rebel at the universally announced claims and intentions of the religious political organization known as the Roman Catholic Church. Many good people who know not the facts are being led by politicians who are a lot more interested in politics than they are religion. It has given rise to the question:
"Where did all this intolerance in Texas originate ? "
Even Senator Kennedy said in the partially televised meeting at Houston: "There was no religious test at the Alamo." In this he is dead wrong. The feelings of the day are recorded in the Texas Declaration of Independence, adopted March 2, 1836. From that shackle-breaking, history-making document written in blood and tears, we now quote:
" ••• when the Federal Republican Constitution of their country, which they have sworn to support, no longer has a substantial existence, and the whole nature of their government has been forcibly changed without their request, from a restricted Federative Republic, composed of sovereign states, to a consolidated central despotism, in which every interest is disregarded but that of the army and the priesthood, both the eternal enemies of civil liberty, the everready minions of war, and the usual instruments of tyrants. • • •
". . • Gen. Antonio Lopez.. de Santa Anna, who, having overturned the Constitution of his country, now offers us the cruel alternative, either to abandon our homes, acquired by so many privations, or submit to the most intolerable of all tyranny, the combined despotism of the swoid and the priesthood. • . •
"It denies us the right of worshipping the Almighty according to the dictates of our conscienfes, by the support of -a national religion calculated to promote the temporal interests of its functionaries rather than the glory of the true and living God .•.• "
Signed by fifty-nine delegates; and thus the tie with Mexico was severed, and a new and free, sovereign and independent Republic was born.
One of the thoughts uppermost in the minds of our Texas forefathers was the desire to be free from the tyrannical powers of the intolerant Roman Catholic Church. Their expressions communicated the deepest of feelings: "The army and the priesthood, both the eternal enemies of civil liberty," "everready minions of power," "usual instruments of tyrants," "combined despotism of the sword and the priesthood."
Who were intolerant? our forefathers who struggled and bled and died to break the shackles? or those who held a pistol in one hand and a cross in the other and insisted they wear the pious chains? Little did they realize when they w~re shouting "Remember the Alamo!" "Remember Goliad!" that a century later some of their defective sons and daughters, bent on political partisanship, would shout words which now indict those hallowed dead. A p~ople, as has been true in so many lands, with whom forbearance ceased to be a virtue, followed their only alternative-rather than have government of the "papal,"
by the "papal," and for the "papal," they chose to have ''government of the people, by the people, and for the people," even at the price of the supreme sacrifice. And the bloody history of those . who opposed freedom cannot be cleansed by accusing those who bled.
It was at· San Jacinto that Houston and his army crept upon the enemy who wielded a powerful sword and a perverted cross.
More than a hundred years have passed. Now that enemy, bearing a new and more deceitful weapon, creeps upon their children and cuts them down with words: "If you are opposed to the Roman Catholic doctrine of the church and state, you are a bigot; you are intolerant; you are un-American." But we can fire back and we do. Many who have opposed them have been burned at the stake. Now who were the bigots?
the ones who went up in smoke? or those who struck the match?
It is said: "But that was more than a hundred years ago."
Yes, and the same church boasts of never changing. After the Alamo, after San Jacinto-in 1870, Pius IX and the Vatican Council gave the celebrated Syllabus and Decrees. They were declared to be infallible, irrevocable, and irreformable-must stand unrevised forever. In these decrees they held forth the doctrine of union of church and state and the right to employ . force to perpetuate it, freedom of worship only for Roman Catholics, their dominion over temporal affairs, the right to direct· public schools, etc.
This Syllabus has never peen revoked by the popes and councils which have followed; so it cannot be watered down by blind politicians who pay tribute to party loyalty at any price. Fur-·
thermore, it is being practiced today. Its very spirit and decrees are being carried out in several countries where they are in control. Texas alone has not suffered. There are several prostrate countries today which lie trampled beneath the Iron Heel-no freedom of worship except for Catholics, no public schools except under Catholic control.
There is no mistake about it. A carnal war was fought to liberate Texas politically and religiously. In the war that now rages (and it was being fought before we ever heard of Kennedy and we shall be fighting it when he's gone), a war of words and principles, let us not surrender that for which ou r·heroic ancestors died. "Remember the Alamo!" How could we Texans forget it?
Reprints of any article appearing in the Firm Foundation may be had for $12.00 per 1000 copies. Orders smaller than 1000 copies not accepted.
Excellent Study Books for HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS By Edward Neely Cullum 1. CROSS ROAD QUESTIONS 2. CROSS ROAD PROBLEMS 3. YOUNG PEOPLE OF THE BIBLE Each book designed to help young people solve their own problems. A 13 week study. Excellent material. 50e per Copy Order from FIRM FOUNDATION PUBLISHING HOUSE Box 77 Austin, Texas '70'7
'D a ne c7efJufJ, Wlw Wad Festus, the R{)man governor, had a prisoner on his hands he did not know what to do with. In aJI effort to appease the Jews, he had forced Paul to exercise his right as a Roman·to appeal to Caesar. Festus was in trouble. The Jews had brought no charges of such evil things as he supposed "but had certain questions against him of their own religion, and of one Jesus, who was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive." He found that Paul "Had committed nothing worthy of death" and sending such a prisoner to the emperor was highly embarrassing.
He asked Agrippa for help and confessed, "I have no certain thing to write unto my lord."
The embarrassment of this befuddled Roman governor was mild, compared to that of the critics who have gone to great length in their efforts to trim this "one Jesus" down to the stature of an ordinary man. We believers are not interested in theories. What are the FACTS about him?
There is no argument over the fact that his character as it is described in the gospels is one of unequalled excellence. No other human being has even approached such an exalted standard.
He is a unique and sole exception to a universal fact in the history of mankind. We have no evidence that any other human lived without sin. How can he be explained?
Some critics in the past advanced the theory that Jesus was the product of the imagination of those who gave us the picture of him. This pr'Oved to ·be a dud and was abandoned by the critics for obvious reasons. The men who wrote of Jesus could not have given the world its ideal character, the central character of the whole world, without a living model toguide them.
He stands out in bold contrast to their own imperfections. Our impression of Jesus is the r-esult of a great variety of things that he SAID and DID. He said and did not even one thing that can justly be made the ground of reproach. He was perfect.
Even Renan, the top man of the French school of critics, described him as "a man of colossal proportions."
The critics fired again and it turned out to be another dud.
They contended that the biographers of Jesus conspired to make him out better than he was. And look what they did!
They gave the men who wrote. the gospels credit for having a perfect ideal in their minds, imperfect as they were, and exercising an IMPOSSIBLE skill in reducing it to narrative form.
And they sneer at the credulity of believers! The speculative acrobatics that unbelievers have thought it expedient to perform are more than a hint that the foundations of our faith are solid and impregnable. Those who scoff at Christ and the gospel usually manage to make fools of themselves in one way or another. If they could not talk or write they would not expose themselves as being so dumb.
The perfection of Jesus justifies some definite and far-reaching conclusions. His disciples were convinced that he was absolutely without moral fault, and that conviction has been accepted by millions of the world's best and most capable thinkers who have examined the written record of his life. The historian Lecky, who was not a crusader for Christianity, paid Jesus an eloquent tribute in his "History of European Morals."
He said that the influence of Jesus was so strong "that it may be truly said that the brief record of three short years of active living has done more to regenet·ate and soften mankind than all the disquisitions of philosophers, and all the exhortations of 708
::!JeaJ". • • • • CLEO E. WALLACE moralists." This is high but deserved tribute from a secular historian, who was interested in dealing only in FACTS.
What shall we say ·of a man who was without sin; who was without worldly ambition and partisan feelings of any kind; who was instantly conscious of knowing the truth on all occasions without thought or hesitation; one who was so intimately acquainted with God and man, heaven and earth, all human and divine relationships, things present and things to come, that he never exp!essed a doubt on any question, however profound?
It is no wonder that all were ~tonished at his teaching. With good cause he himself has been called the greatest of miracles.
Formal educational advantages cannot account for this. Extensive travel or natural talents as a man cannot explain him.
Then what does?
We cannot ignore the judgment and claims of such a man concerning himself. They are of the most exalted kind. He asserted dogmatically that he was the light of the world, the bread of life, that he came from God, that to know him was to know God, that whoever believed in him would never die.
Beyond doubt he considered himself the guide and redeemer of mankind.
If we reject his judgment and testimony concerning himself, what follows? We must conclude that perfect moral purity and humility are consistent with an arrogant self-exaltation which is really without parallel in the extent to which it was carried.
We must conclude that he was the victim of an enormous delusion.
We must conclude of the only pure and perfect one that "the light that was in him was darkness." We cannot draw such reckless and unreasonable conclusions, and those critics who do, make gr·eater monkeys of themselves than they claim that Charles Darwin proved them to be. Paul hung the right tag on that kind. "Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory . . . . into . . . • If you are curious to know "into" what?, you can find the answer in skeptical literature.
Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. His life and his works support his claims. No other conclusion has the support of either FACT or REASON. 3106 Hemphill, Austin 5, Texas YOUNG'S .Anafglicaf Concordance to The Bible THE GREATEST BOOK OF REFERENCE on the Greatest Book in the World!
Plain $12.75; Indexed $14.00
FIRM FOUNDATION PUBIJISHING HOUSE P. 0. Box 77 Austin, Texas FIRM FOUNDATION-NOVEMBER 8, 1960
"COMMUNICATIONS BARRIER" ED WHARTON Of the difficulties encountered in sustaining this restoration movement the Janguage barrier seems to be striving for preeminence.
Although denominational concept expressed in the biblio-sectarian language is a hodgepodge far from the sound doctrine, this scribe feels that some difficulties in the church arise from false concepts wihch can be traced to a similar mongrel type language in our own camp.
Words convey thought. Back of religious speech lies religious concept, back of concept lies education, whether scriptural or otherwise. Hence, the one who speaks of "getting religion" or suggests you "go to the church of your choice" reveals his religious concepts. Such unfortunate choice of words are fraught with dangers. For an illustration, the one who speaks of "getting religion" may have the false concept of the direct operation of the Holy Spirit in salvation. So he waits for religion to HAPPEN to him! Meanwhile, the Dible teaches that religion is something one DOES, not gets (Jas. 1:27; Acts 17:22).
Several of our own expressions could stand revising, or throwing out. Not simply to satisfy one's pet peeve, but to eliminate false concepts. Thesg sentiments are not mine alone. Edward J. Young has stated, "Indeed, one of the greatest services that anyone can render the modern Church is to rescue the vocabulary of revealed religion from the eviscerating process to which such terminolQgy has bee~ subject for a good many years. One of the crying needs of the Church is for a rehabilitation of her glorious terminology" (My Servants The Prophets, p. 79). I feel this expresses the sentiments of a good many of the brethren, today.
Many of o~r expressions relating to the church such as "go to church," "Church of Christ preacher," "the other denominations,"
betrays the denominational concept among too many of us. It is anything but glorious terminology. When asked of Christians what they are religiously you can almost predict the standard reply, "I'm a Church of Christ"! That's a good trick if you can do it.
But ther·e are a couple of other areas productive of far more serious repercussions bearing directly upon church action. From the east coast of Florida to Denver, and from St. Louis to south Texas (which will serve as a good commentary on what's left), brethren are doing their deeds "IN THE NAME OF THE CHURCH" in order that "THE CHURCH GETS THE PRAISE." These are expressions of unscriptural concept headed in the direction of sectarianism.
One passage should "lay the axe at the root of the tree" and forever discourage anything to be done in the name of the ch~rch: "Whatsoever ye do ..• DO ALL IN THE NAME OF THE LORD JESUS" (Col. 8:17). But the. meaning of "in the name of" needs, it seems, to be spelled out. To do anything in the name of another carries with it the idea of authority.
We hear of criminals arrested "in the name of the law."
This expresses the authority back of the arrest. Jesus said that His is "all authority" ('Matt. 2S:18). This was followed by the command to baptize. Hence, in Acts 2 :38 Peter commands, "Repent ye, and be baptized ... IN THE NAME OF JESUS CHRIST." This is not talking about a formula of words to be spoken, but assigns the authority due to baptism for the remission of sins. To baptize for remission of sins in the name of the church puts the authority in the wrong place.
Well, what! To do something "IN THE NAME OF THE CHURCH" puts the authority right where the Catholics want it -in the church! The monstrous and inevitable mutation produced by the Catholic church by the transference of tlie authority from heaven to the Vatican is seen in the legislative power of the Roman hierarchy which has long since discarded the Word as authority. The danger of doing anything "in the name of the church" tends toward "church legislation" so much in evidenc-e in the sectarian bodies. "One only is Lawgiver" ( J as. 4:12), and the church is to "do ALL" in HIS name. Continue to plead our words and deeds in the name of the church and we will be passing laws before you know it.
As for "who gets the praise" and "who gets the glory" those who read and believe the New Testament are not left to doubt (and therein lies the challenge to solve present problems).
"Whatsoever ye do, DO ALL TO THE GLORY OF GOD" (1
Cor. 10:31). Paul says that the church was "foreordained • • •
to the PRAISE OF THE GLORY OF HIS GRACE" and "to the end that we should be unto the PRAISE OF HIS GLORY" (Eph. 1:5-6, 12-14). Then in the third chapter the apostle brings to a conclusion the subject of the place of the church in God's eternal purpose by stating, "unto him (God) be the GLORY IN THE CHURCH" (3:21).
Notice, the church is to GIVE the glory, not get it. God is to receive "ALL" the glory; His purpose from eternity is "unto the praise of his glory," and He purposed to get the praise or the glory, all of it, "IN the church." We are not to do anything "in the name of the church" so the church will get the praise.
But, rather the church is to "do all in the name of Jesus • • •
unto the glory of God.'' To glorify the church is to rob God of what is purposefully and rightfully His.
When the church learns her purpose and humbles herself to it, she will rid herself of: theatricals for her own carnal glory, and will be secure in obedience to heaven's authority. Then the language of Ashdod will cease out of the land of Israel.
HERE IS A BARGAINI ...
Because we believe in what it can do, we are offering to bear half the price of a subscription to the Firm Foundation if sent to every family in the congregation where you worship. Regular Subscription Price is $4 but we will send the Firm Foundation every week into every home in the congregation for $2
each. There isn't a congregation in the land that would not be benefitted many times over from this offer. The effect of receiving the Firm Foundation in every home every week ~would pay the cost many times. It would never cost-it always pays.
Preachers could get an assistant, making a personal call each week in every home, for very little. Elders could get assistance in teaching in every home every week on hundreds of subjects -sound, faithful teaching, plainly put and well thought out for so little! This would have its effect. We believe if you tried it for a year, and then followed up your experiment with any kind of survey to gauge the worth of what you have done you would never be without the Firm Foundation in every home every week every year.
Reprints of any article appearing in the Firm Foundation may be had for $12.00 per 1000 copies. Orders smaller than 1000 copies not accepted.
'109
Coleman's Article· on Music Strikes Responsive Chord!
Dear Editor: I refer to an article, Singing Is A Matter For Grave Concern, by M. P. Coleman, appearing in Firm. Foundation, September 6, page 568. The article is informative and contains some good suggestions. In my judgment it also contains some statements that are open to question.
A portion of one paragraph reads: "The result of our failure to acknowledge the mechanical and aesthetic importance of music has been that the music of the ~burch today has degenerated into a state as low, if not lower, than the state of popular music in America. Much of it is cheap, irreverent and uninspirational."
Of greater concern to this writer (and I am persuaded to others) is the following: "Members of the church of Christ have accepted without intelligent investigation the idea that anything as long as it is unaccompanied is scriptural and acceptable.
Nothing could be farther from the truth. It would be better to sing" 'Abide. With Me' "with accompaniment (emphasis mine-OLW.) than " 'Heavenly Sunlight' " without from the standpoint of spirituality, propriety and meaningfulness.
In fact let me respectfully suggest that the latter and songs similar to it are instrumental music scored for voices!
They employ a melody with the accompaniment " 'playe~ "
by the alto, tenor and bass. They trace their form from tne instrumentally conceived music of the Eighteenth Century and following."
I have quoted the entire paragraph as I do not wish to lift the quotation out of context. I think I understand the meaning of the words, "sphituality, propriety and meaning:(ul." I h~ve no desire to misconstrue them, or attach to them a connotation not intended by the writer. However music in worship is under discussion in the article under consideration. If one should concede (as I do not without further evidence) that '~Heavenly Sunlight" is unscriptural or unacceptable in worship, it would under no condition make the singing of "Abide With Me" with (mechanical) accompaniment acceptable. 0. L. Winborn, Loop; Texas.
* * * * *
Dear Brother Lemmons: I have read with much interest the article "Singing Is a Matter for Grave Concern," by Brother M. P. Coleman in the Sept. 6th issue of the Firm Foundation and share much the same opinion that music in worship has received far too little consideration, and even in· this day of enlightenment ( ? ) many Christians still think of our song service as merely a "frill" to be "sat through" while tardy members are finding their pews.
J. further appreciate his views concerning the mechanical and aesthetic aspects of music, although several questions remain to be answered:
( 1) How can we determine an aesthetic standard which church music must meet in order to be acceptable to God? Who is to formulate these criteria? Do ·not different ethnic gr~>Ups express their emotions in different ways? For example, what might appear to be "cheap, irreverent and uninspirational" to o~e group might at the same time meet the emotional and spiritual needs of another. ·
'2'10
Contrast the highly reserved, almost stoic, procedure of our British brethren to that of some of our American brethren living in the "hill country of E~hraim." Or, contrast the music of the Orient to that of the Western world. Is it not possible for all these brethren to 'be worshipping in "spirit and truth" and yet be using entirely different types of musical media (We assume the lyrics are not anti-Scriptural)?
(2) Is harmony an unjustifiable "accompaniment" that has been added to the sacred monody of the early church? Is God displeased with "harmony" in the songs that praise His name?
Shall we contend with Adam Clarke that" .•.. by these preposterous means (harmony .•.. ) the simplicity of the Christian worship is destroyed, and all edification totally prevented"?
(Commentary, Vol. VI, p. 529. If Clarke is correct, then we will have to sing "Abide With Me" in UNISON only.
(3) Must worship always be solemn and subdued and inanimate (a la Roman Catholic service) in order to be pleasing to God? Are songs which have a "folk" origin and flavor totally unsuitable for worship? Are they too undignified? Was the healed "lame man" in Acts 3 ~ompletely "out of order" and ''conceding to his cosmic nature" when he began walking, leaping and praising God? -and this was inside the temple. I am not suggesting that we have a "leaping" service, but is it wrong to express one's joy and exuberance by a lively song?-Yours truly, A. Hugh Graham, Dallas, Texas.
* * * * *
Dear Brother Lemmons: Read again the article, "Music in the Church," page 568, in Firm Foundation. I see "Music in the· church," "Music of the early church," "Music of the church has degenerated." FROM WHERE? "The burden of whose spiritual quality resides mostly in the music," "Better to sing 'Abide With Me' with the instrument than to sing 'Heavenly Sunlight' without one."
All this sounds like quotations from the Christian Standard of about 1904 when one-half of our brethren were digressing ••.•
So many people think that anything good must come from Germany or somewhere a long way off. . . . I have. never wanted to follow the Catholics in singing or anything else. We should know the Bible is the place to go for guidance. There are a lot of good spiritual songs written by humble people of Texas and Arkansas. We are still weak. We love the praise of men!
Austin Taylor, Uvalde, Texas.
* * * * *
And with these sentiments we wholeheartedly agree. We resent efforts of some highly trained musicians to pour all song leaders into a straightjacket. Personally, we dislike much of the staid old funeral dirge music that characterizes the average worship service. We believe it would please God and help the brethren if we would liven up the sir,ging considerably.
We believe it is the wrong concept entirely that a worshipful heart must express its. praise in slow motion, and in such .music as only a highly trained human ear can really appreciateEditor.
Here's what $15 can do. ·It can provide a whole series of well written messages every week in the year for each of five friends of yours. Send us a club of five names at the club rate of $3 per person and we will provide each of them with over six hundred full length messages this year.
FIRM FOUNDATION-NOVEMBER 8, 1960
There Is No Substitute For Prayer M. NORVEL YOUNG Why are Christians so often defeated by temptation? Why are workers in the church so frequently discouraged and listless?
Why are so many good people lacking in spiritual energy and power to do great things for God? Why are so many churches of the Lord not on fire with zeal for Christ? One great cause is lack of prayer in Jesus' name! There is no substitute for prayer!
Prayer is described by Webster as "an entreaty, a petition addressed to God." It may be in the form of adoration or con~ ession or supplication or thanksgiving. It is talking with God, and it is more than that. It is a communion with him, an opening of the heart to his will that he may express his power through us. William James said that prayer is "intercourse with an· ideal companion." God is our Father, and we were created in his image to dwell with him in peace. When we fail to pray we are missing the fellowship with the only person who is able to make us what we ought to be. We might apply the words of the Hebrew writer and say, "Without prayer it is impossible to be well pleasing to God for he that comes to God must have enough faith in God that he will· pray frequently to -God." ·
Some Christians have allowed the abuse of power to discount the proper use of it. Any good thing can be abused, and prayer has been abused. There are those who make false claims as to their power to raise the dead, to take the place of good medical treatment, and generally to perform miracles which cannot be substantiate,d with proof. Others try to substitute prayer for obedience to the plain commands of the gospel. , They say that the alien sinner who has never obeyed the gospel needs only to pray for forgiveness of sins and God will save him without the kind of faith which leads to obedience of the command for the sinner to repent and be baptized unto the remission of sins (Acts 2:88).
Certainly prayer is no substitute for obedience to God's other commands. It is no substitute for repentance, for confession of faith in Christ· and baptism into Christ. It is no substitute for giving of our money to support the cause of Christ, nor for any other command to the Christian. But, let us underscore this ·too. The keeping of all these commands is no substitute for prayer. In our age of stress upon outward activity we are often tempted to think that we can keep so busy doing good, visiting the sick, helping the needy, preaching privately or publicly, writing, showing hospitality, that we will not need much prayer. In the early church at Jerusalem the apostles· refused to get so busy "serving tables" that they would not have time for "continuing steadfastly in prayer." They had been with Jesus, the man of prayer, and he had taught them ~hat prayer was of primary importance in the disciple's life. There is an old proverb which says: "Satan laughs at our toi), mocks at our wisdom, but trembles when we pray.'' Our Lord taught his disciples a parable, "to this end, that men o)lght always to pray, and not to faint.'' Surely, many of us faint because we fail "always· to pray.'' Truly, there is no substitute for prayer.
The greatest argument for the power of prayer is the example of our Lord himself. The four gospels probably cover only a hundred days of Jesus' life, yet they abound in references to his prayer-life. Luke, more than the others, underscores his praying. Jesus prayed at his baptism by John. He prayed all night before choosing his apostles. He prayed on the Mount of Transfiguration. He prayed after the feeding of the five thousand. He prayed in the garden of Gethsemane. He prayed on the cross three times of the seven times it is recorded that he spoke. How can any man attempt to follow such a praying ,t,ord and neglect to pray always ?
Yet, many men who have admired Jesus as a great leader and teacher have overlooked this secret of his power. Many service arganizations have adopted Jesus' golden rule, but have entirely neglected his example of prayer. The world has hailed him with its greatest music, its most honored art, and its grandest architecture, but has too often refused to kneel down with him and pr.&y to his Father. How many of his disciples have followed his example of going apart from the crowd and continuing "all night in prayer to God"? Yet, he says to us, "Ask and it shall be given unto you; seek and ye shall find; knock and it shall be opened unto you.'' The prayerless life is the powerless life. If we would gain power to do God's will, let us continue steadfastly in prayers.
Ere you left your room this morning, Did you think to pray, In the name 9f Christ our Savior, Did you sue for loving favor, As a shield today?
When you met with great temptation, Did you think to pray?
By his dying love and merit, Did you claim the Holy Spirit, As your guide and stay?
0 how praying rests the weary, Prayer will change the night to day; So when life seems dark and dreary, Don't forget to pray!
Our Blessed Privilege of Freedom of Worship LES MARNEY The greatest earthly blessing man can have is complete freedom to worship God according to his belief and conscience (teaching), thus fulfilling his own heart's desire. This is the one principle, above all others, which made this country what it is. The reason this heritage of ours is so precious is that in order to worship God according to GOD'S will, each individual must worship because it is HIS OWN will to do so. In other words, acceptable worship MUST be by CHOICE and not by FORCE. ·
Man is a free moral agent endowed with the ability, capability and responsibility to choose right from wrong: truth from error (Gen. 1-6; John 8:16; Phil. 2:12), therefore, each person must CHOOSE. to worship and serve God because it is his own personal desire. When one truly LOVES God and has real FAITH in Him and His word, he WANTS to worship, and serve Jehovah more than anything else, and it is only when these conditions exist that one can worship in SPIRIT and in TRUTH (John 4:24). Otherwise, any and all "worship" is vain and unacceptable to God.
These conditions of worship cannot be forced upon anyone.
Let us suppose that everyone in this nation should be foreed (Continued on page 712)
'111
IT IS CHRISTIAN LOYALTY, NOT PREJUDICE • 0 • E. W. McMILLAN Among the most effective weapons used by propaganda in gaining an advantage is the use of sensationalized terms. Some of these are "loaded" words and phrases.
Propaganda is never, as a method, interested in truth. Propaganda, therefore, purely as a technique, sometimes uses partial truth with partial error; its uses prejudicial appeals to gain loyalty against prejudice; it uses highly desirable terms at times to gain undesirable ends.
Name-calling is one very effective method of propaganda.
Call somebody a "softie," or a "rad~cal," or a "Modernist," or narrow-minded and you have gone a long way toward restricting, and possibly destroying, the person's influence. You need not name the details on which you base your charge; just "tag" somebody and imagination will follow through with the desired results, usually.
In the present presidential campaign the banner of "religious prejudice" is raised constantly. . Senator Kennedy says "My brother died in the war for our country; I have served Congress for our country; I have served on important committees in these positions. If I can be trusted in these capacities by my country I just cannot believe that religious prejudice now will distrust me as the President of the United States." The magic touch in all th~t recital is "religious prejudice.''
Who wants to be styled a religious bigot or to be considered so prejudiced that he cannot vote honestly ? But it is deceptive to say, or imply, that voters are acting out of religious prejudice when they are influenced by what they know a candidate believes, religiously, unless we give to "religious prejudice" a just and respectable place in motives. If a man in office is honest, his religious convictions have to dictate his judgments.
If he does not let them do so he is not honest religiously. It therefore is not religious prejudice in the ugly sense to vote for or against a man because of his religious views.
This is true especially when a candidate is a Roman Catholic.
History is too clear for anyone to be in doubt about how the Roman Catholic church has persecuted those who opposed them in the past. Their dogmas say. now that people who oppose their beliefs are punishable by even death. Recent developments in Europe, particularly Italy and Austria, are convincing enough about what the Roman Catholics would do today if they could develop a power strong ·enough to support their beliefs.
When a voter casts his vote today to protect the future freedom of his posterity, he is doing only his positive religious duty; he is not acting from religious prejudice; he is protecting the rights of religious freedom for his descendants.
The question is asked often, "Do you think that one man in the position of President could, or would, try ·to curb our freedom in this country?" The answer is: "That question is misleading in relation to the whol'e truth." Propaganda uses infiltration, subversion and pressure constantlr in the promotion of desired aims. Communism is using these with great effect today. A President of the United States can be pressured publicly or privately, and if he is honest his religious affiliation will influence his decisions all the way. These convictions wll ~ppoint men to places of influence and power, and these appointments will gradually change the total policy of our government.
If anyone desires an example he need onl~ to look at our national government twenty-five years ago in comparison with today. The United States is a much more Socialistic government today than it was then because a president and other key personnel favored the socialistic trend in government. 712
Enough Supreme Court judges, Congressmen and a President could change our government within fifty years in exactly the ·
same way religiously. Some trends already are in action. If it is wrong to oppose a candidate on the grounds of his religious beliefs and affiliations now, it would be wrong to do it in the years to come. Our nation, therefore, would be helpless on the separation of church and State. We today who vote a trend or a potential trend in government are responsible for the results fifty years from today.
This fact, therefore, calls for the "hard core" decision: Shall we at this time allow ourselves to be misled by a false statement about religious prejudice and by that misguided judgment set all our future welfare to this same, unquestionable, self-imposed handicaps, or shall we say in the coming election what we know to be a very safe course for our future? This is the only point of importance for decision. It is not a matter of acting out of religious prejudice; it is a matter of taking what the Catholics have done always when they had the control, taking what they do today in countries where they are in control, taking what their superiors admit believing today and deciding that we will not be responsible for voting a precedent which starts the same potential in our government for the future. Others have the right to vote as they· believe to be the best, but I believe that they have an obligation to know the facts of what they are seting in motion by their votes. For me, THERE IS ONLY ONE POSSIBLE VOTE. And I shall not be voting mainly for the difference between the political ideologies of two political parties.
I am a Democrat of the deep South by birth and practice; but in this year's presidential campaign, I shall vote against a potential religious ambition which believes it has the right to dictate to me and my posterity in relation to our religious freedom.
OUR BLESSED PRIVILEGE ••••
(Continued from page 711)
to go through a form of worship which, let's further suppose, was the exact pattern set forth in the New Testament-how many people do you think would worship in SPIRIT and in TRUTH? Unless one meets the condition of heart's desire motivated by love and faith, he CANNOT worship i~ the SPIRIT and according to the TRUTH. Of course, those who would try to force others to worship, do it ALWAYS in THEIR WAY; NEVER in GOD'S WAY!
People who struggle for freedom of worship will always be branded as "bigots" by those who do not believe in freedom of worship. This is simply the price to be paid for liberty of worship. The bigot calls everybody else a bigot.
If we are to please God, we must worship Him in Spirit and in truth. Because our Constitution guarantees us the privilege of doing just that-to worship Jehovah because, and how, we WANT to, we have the most precious, the most valuable freedom we could ever hope for in this world. My prayer is that the American people will protect this heritage with such vigor that so long as this world stands, we will never lose it. Not only that, but that one day, all people of every nation might also enjoy this, the most wonderful of all freedoms.
Albuquerque, N. M.
Reprints of any article appearing in the Firm Foundation may be had for $12.00 per 1000 copies. Orders smaller than 1000 copies not accepted.
FIRM FOUNDATION-NOVEMBER 8, 1960
A T I p s F 0 R T E A ( H E R s - LEONARD MULLENS In our teaching of God's Word, the real objeetive of our task must be defined and kept bafore our hearts. In our article for this week, Bro. Jim Sheerer, of the Highland Village church in Austin, Texas, discusses this matter of purpose with us. We thank Brother Sheerer for this contribution.
Material for this column should be addressed to me at 3920
Cott, Corpus Christi, Texas.-Leonard Mullens.
AIMS IN TEACHING Jim Sheerer The only way that we can really get the job done in any endeavor is to have a goal or aim for which we are working. This is just as true in the work of the church as it is in the business world. This need for aims can be seen most clearly in the life of our Savior. The primary aim of Jesus was to save people from their sins. In order to accomplish this primary aim, it was necessary to accomplish certain secondary aims. For instance, he fulfilled all righteousness, he fulfilled the prophecies concerning his life, he lived a sinless life, he taught a wonderful new message, he died upon the cross and with his blood pur.
chased the church, he offered us hope by being raised from the dead. But in all of the actions of Jesus there was still just one principal aim, and that was to save us from our sins.
If we were to ask the majority of teachers, "What is the aim of teaching?" most of them would state, "To teach the Bible."
Many times this is the philosophy upon which our Bible school programs are built. When this occurs, the teaching of the Bible becomes an end in itself, and we are prone to pat ourselves on the back if we have a curriculum that is Bible-centered.
This writer most certainly believes in the teaching of the Bible, but does not believe that this should be the primary aim of our Bible schools. The fundamental aim of the Bible school is TO PREPARE SOULS FOR HEAVEN. By preparing souls for heaven ~e mean that it furnishes them with the knowledge, motivation, and experience so that when they stand before the judgment bar of God to give account of their lives, God will say unto them, "Well done, good and faithful servants, enter into the joys of thy Lord." There is nothing that is more important than the soul, and we want to have this soul prepared for heaven. If we lose sight of this aim, then we have missed the greatest JK)int of all.
It is, however, impossible to attain this primary aim without attaining certain secondary aims. We want merely to mention two that we consider of supreme importance. The basic aim is to prepare souls for heaven, and the only way that souls can be properly prepared for heaven is by a knowledge of the Bible.
The study of the Bible is important as it is a means to the end, but it is not the end itself. · The end is the eternal home in heaven, and the means is the Word of God. There is no way possible for us to attain this eternal home without a study and knowledge of the Bible.
As far as the subject matter is concerned, it is absolutely essential that it be Bible-centered. This does not mean that we cannot or must not use written material other than the Bible in our studying. In times past some have objected to written material in the Bibl~ school. There is no difference between the written material and what a teacher might say orally concerning the lesson. Comments on the word of God are the same whether written or oral. We would insist that they be in accordance with the word of God. The greatest danger that we want to avoid while making our Bible study centered around the Bible is considering it the end itself rather than the means to the end. The end is preparing souls for heaven.
The other secondary aim that we would like to mention is that the material must be related to the individual's experience, and we must inspire the individual in order to accomplish this.
Many times a teacher's conception of teaching is nothing more than relating facts and teaching facts. As a result, many times we teach doctrines, but fail to teach individuals. We must help each one to see that Christianity is a life to be lived ~;~nd not merely a dogma to be accepted. We are teaching individuals, and we· must relate these doctrines to their lives and motivate and inspire them to be guided by them. Only then have we really taught the individual. Too long have we labored under the illusion that if we teach the Bible, this part will take care of itself.
An interesting observation is found from a study made by Professor T. H. Grafton, Ph. D., of Mary Baldwin College. In the book, ADULT EDUCATION IN THE CHURCH, by Sherril and Purcell, pages 124-126, the following conclusion from Professor Grafton's work is made: As one knows the Bible better, does his actual conduct show a difference as compared with another who knows the Bible less well? The studies generally indicate that the person with better Bible knowledge shows up very little, if any, better· than his companion who knows less Bible. Bartlett's study showed that in the matter of cheating on classroom tests there was no difference between a group who knew the Bible well, and another group who had no Biblical instruction. Many other studies show the same general results in matters of conduct. Indeed, in some instances it has appeared that the group with more Bible knowledge showed up worse than those with less.
Perhaps our first reaction would be that this survey was taken in the North among denominational churches, and therefore these conclusions are invalid as far as our teaching is concerned.
The first objection is probably true, whereas the second part is definitely false. That we have taught facts and have failed to teach people can hardly be denied~ For instance, everyone who has attended Bible school for any length of time knows that God is love and that we must have love motivating our actions. Yet most of the trouble in the world war, divorces, murders, friction among friends in the church and among neighbors is due to a lack of love in our hearts. If we truly love each other, brethren can work out any problem to the glory of God, and in accordance with the scriptures. But that this is not the case many, many times shows that we have taught facts about love, but have failed to make love a part of our lives and of our students. The same thing might be said about giving.
All members of the church know that we should give UJK)n the first day of the week, and that "it is more blessed to give than to receive"; that God loves a cheerful giver, and that we should give as prospered. But until we have related these to the individual's life, he will not become a skillful, cheerful-giver.
So it is with all the great formulas of Christian living.
Thus it must be the secondary aim of the teacher to relate the material to the individual and motivate and inspire Christian conduct. A person cannot have the joy of Christianity until he experiences the real joy of trusting in God, the joy of really giving to God, and the joy of treating his neighbor as himself.
Preparing a soul for heaven means more than just teaching him the Bible, more than relating the messages to his life, more than filling his life with good works, more than just loving.
It is the sum total of the Christian experiences that teaches us that our basic and ·primary purpose here upon the earth is to serve, worship and glorify the Almighty God who created us.
We must put proper things in the proper places and remember that we are building lives-not relating doctrines.
'118
J umeH 0. "\VIIbu rn, Box 64 2, Canad ia n, Texas, Oct. 17: The c hurch her& closed a meeti ng l a~l nigh t with Jack Hardcastle pr·eachlng a nd Charles Duncan d l r ecllng the ~l nging. Four were baptized an() nine r estored.
LeRoy Dn•·IH, Counc il Blurts, Iowa, Oct. 28: Our recent meeting with Brother J ess \Vilcoxson res ulted In two restorations. He did an exce ll ent job o! preaching the gospeL Br other Louis Stowe of Granite, Okla.
will s peak at both services Oct. 30.
Maurice lll. Howe ll, 8 North Tuxedo Ave., Chattanooga II, T enn., Oct. 22 : My last three meetings were with churches at Tus cumbia, Ala., Portland, Tenn .. and Winchester, Tenn. Thirty were baJ)tlzed In t hese efforts. I a m now engaged In a mission meeting in Calhoun, T e nn. Everette N.
Bean Is the located e vangelist.
A. H. E mer,·, Jr., Box 198, Tolar, Texas, Oct. 26: Our work here conti nues In a s pl e ndid manner. ·we had a good lectureship here Oct. 2-8, with each s peaker makIng a wonde rrul contribution to our theme.
Our T ea c her-Tra ining p r ogr·am r esumed In September after a lapse or two months.
\Ve continue to e njoy the Firm Foundation, especially the edito rials.
"\Vllllnm R ee, ·e,., 6 Beechfern Lane, Levittown, N. J ., Oct. 19 : Two baptized and one restor ed in n meeting at Niagara Falls, IS'. Y. Jack \VIIhelm Is with us in a meetIng Oct. 19-21. The 36th and Prospect Church in Okla. City begins supporting Joe L emmo ns (rorme rly of Rochester, N. Y.)
a t New Egypt, N. J., Dec. 1st.
"\VIIIIH G. J e rnh:nu, 3739 13r·ook s Dr., Corpus Chril! ll, Texas, Oct. 17: Our fa ll meetIng closed last n ight. Brother H. A. Dobbs or Ho u ston was the preach e r . ·Four were baptized, inc lu ding a. P r esbyte ria n and two 'Roman Catholics. Three were r·esto r ed.
An all time high Bible School attendance was set. Total responses here at Hlllcrest ror the fln;t half of October numbe r H.
Chn,.. Oegenbnr t, 814 North 16th Avenue, Yakima, Wash., Oct. 20: Since we began here with East s ide c hurch on Apr·il 14, 16 ha,·e been b(lptized a nd 5 restored. Because of members who are migratory work e rs it will be necessary to raise o u tside support o f $1 GO to $200 per month In order to remain here. "'Ill you help us conti nue t his !;'Ood work at this time?
)1. H. P hl l llt•"· Box 505, Ear·th, Texas, Tcxal'. Oct. 21: 1 am In Bridge Cit)' with the Cannl Street congregation In a gospel effort. Tho work at home Is encou raging.
Th e ~· had been without a preacher located there for almost a year and as a result the Bible stu<ly was o rr some a nd tlmt Is gNting back to normal. 'J.'he brethren are at peac·c with each other a nd are at war with the world. 714
D. E. Bnw eom, 1040 Coolidge St., West' tleld, N. J., Oct. 19: Harmon Black closed o ne ot our best attended meetings last week. Church here has great opportunities to become a large a nd str ong congregation.
Hobu r t E . AHhhy, 207 '\\', J effen;on, Abe rdeen, ~li ss., Oct. 25: One was baptized at Hamilton last Sunday. A new attenda nce record was set wi th 76 being present.
One was restored at Aberdeen Oct. 16.
Bo:r :v l Uollenhnm, 1469 Ann St., Montgome r y, Ala., Oct. 5: 1 wou ld like to report that I ha ,·e concluded my work with the ch urch In Benic ia , Callr. I a m now with the Alabama Christian College In Mon tgomery, Ala., in the P ublic R e lations Dept.
F lt> t c hcr Cn uthe n, Box 52, H eidelberg ·west N :23, VIctoria, Australia , Oct. 23:
Two high school boys were baptized in ~e)bourne tonight. Our radio br· oAd cast, "Fifteen Minutes with t he Bible," Is now being heard over lh·e stations In this con tinent.
\Ve ar·e enjoying our new song bool;s here a t Heidelberg church, "The Majestic Hymnal Number Two."
l "nducnh, Kentucky Aft e r cnreful cnn,. lderntlon the e ldt> rH here nt the lune Onk co n ~regu tton hn ,e d ecldell In f n \'Or of your n(lo , ,• book. "lltnj eJC tfc Hy1nn1al. No. 2~''
fur uKe In our JJrniHe ser, ·lce u nto Gncl. "\Ve feel thn t the " election of w<U•K" u" oft'ere cl In "~Juj ctdl c Hyna n n l'' Is unMurpn"sed.-Je tuJ Hull.
TELRGRA::Il-The Gospel Hour Is back o n the air Sunday nights, 9:30 (Central Standard T ime) over XEJRF, 1570 kc .. 250,-
000 w1\lts, most powerful commercial station in North America, after cut off two months ago. Broadcast may be heard througho u t greater part or North America a nd parts of South America. Ann ouncem en t will be appreclated.-Gospel Hour Radio Committee.
Don lltnnt•h re,·, Gl 05 Alle nclnle, Hous ton 17. TexQ!J. Oct. 21: \VIlh their full salary and all expensc;s guaranteed by the Oak ~Ieadow~< congregation In Houston, Texas, the Don Humphreys h ope to soon j oin 'YVilJi am l\JIIler In Nassau o f the Bahamas, to become the tlrst American missionaries worl<lng th ere. Al t hough the Oak Mead ows elde•·s plan to continue full support or the Humphreys In mission work for at least ten year s, t hey add that "We hope to ma l(e a habit of putting Cull-~uppo r·ted n ew men In new fields and hope man ~· othe r congregations will too!"
L. 1•'. :III II ,., 3~ 16 F.. Cenu·nt. \\'lchlta, Kan ., Oct. 2 : \\'e had one baptbm at Dellrose Sunday night. 1\nd one bnptlsm and on e res toration dur·lng our meeting with Dean Freetly, Oct. 9-10. Gene l\'!owrer· baptized two as supply preacher while I was away In meetlrogs. Bro. Freet!~· did a good job o f preaching In the meeting. Hc !'cr·ved as local preacher with Dellrose in 19 56-58.
He Is now preaching In Urbana. 111 .. and wor·king on his Doctor·ate at the Unh·er·s ity of Illino is. '\Ve are ~ h owl n g the H erald or Truth pilot film, "The ::llustard Seed,'' at our \\'ednesday night service.
E llwnrcl U. Jlock ey, -12-08 Murray St., Flutihlng, N. Y.. Oct. 13: L ast night my wile's mothet·, Mrs. Elizabeth F. \\'hlteman, the fi rst person I had the privilege of baptizing Into Christ, passed !rom this lire.
We have been b lessed g r eatly her e In Flus hing. Six have been baptized r ecently, a nd we assis ted two Northeastl!rn congr e galtons with their hulldlng funds. ·we were strength e ned by a Cou r -day ectort wi t h A lvis Bryan.
W IINon "\\'ullnce, 6214 Abington Way, Houston 8, Texas, Oct. 29: \\' lthln the past six months 1 have preached In th ree meetIng:~
In the v icinity of Denton, Texas: at \Yood Street In Denton, at Little E lm, and at Frisco, the latter meeting r esulting In two baptis ms. X!y work wllh the Norhill congregation In Houston has been blessed with five baptisms, the results of c lasses In th e homes. Bill Humble of Louisvill e, Ky., will preach In our meeting Nov. 6-13.
~lux T . 1\'eel, 1424 East Park Road, Utica, N. Y., Oct. 26: l enjoyed being In Texas du ring October In two meetings and seeing many old friends. T he mee ting at North Housto n, w ith Br o. Hoyt Bailey, resulted In eight baJ)tlsms, twelve r e -dedication s, a nd one p laced membership. The meeting in San Antoni o, at San Pedr o, with Bro.
Cecil H i ll, r·esulted in live being ba ptized, one restoratio n, a nd o ne placed m embership.
Both or these brethren were SJ>Ien dld co- labor ers. Our work h ere In Utica I,; about the same with attendance averagIng about 30 each L or d's day.
Jnme8 ,v. Tleyn olll", Pueblo, Colo., Oct. 28: Du ring the last three months t"'"' have been baptized, thir teen r estored and e leven ha\'e placed members hip here at Broadway and Orman. Our Bible School has Increased at least on the ll\'erage of 50. Il was my pleasu re to be in a gospel meeUng w ith t he Lal(e Jacks o n, Texas, Church ot Christ Oct. 10-19. Four were baptized and one r estored.
)fy next meeting will be Nov. 28-
Dec. 4, wi th the West Dou g las Church of Christ in 'Wichita, Kan. Brother Carl S pain will begin o u r meeting h ere In Pueblo Oct. 30.
E lme r Shnckclfo r d, \\'ahla\\'a, Hawaii: F'our ha\'e r ecently been baptized here. Two of these, (a husband a nd wiCe) had never had any connection with anyone In the c h urch until we began a home study with them. T his mak<!s a total of s ix such famIlies that have obeyed the gospel as a r e~ u lt o f our "Cottage Meetings." \\'e recently paid orr the debt o n our· propert)·, which consists mostly o f the land. \\'e arc now beginning a b uild ing· fund !or a n fLUditol'ium.
\ Vt> tll·e told that an aud itor ium that will seat 250, with a basement (for c lass rooms) will cost about $70.000. " '"
reel thnt we Rhould have at lcnst one half of t his before \\'e start building. At the present time we have $2,000 In t his fund.
Wife nnd l wi ll be moving bnc l< to the mainland In F e br·uary, 1961. After the first o( )11\rCh W(l will be working with the brethren at \Val{oner . Okla. The ch urch here will continu e to need h elp un til they ha,·e enough funds on hand to nt least start building. H those who lu\\·e bc.>en h elping In the past, both on the b u ilding fund a nd my support would continu e ror a no ther year or so, I LlPJieve there would be e nough runds on hand to s tart bu ild ing.
FIRM FOUNDATION- NOVEMBER 8, 1960
Essen, in Center of 10,275,000 Population ENNen '" the. <"enter of the Ruhr lnd nHtrlnl nrt>n. T h t• rt' ll•·e :~.800,000 peoJole within n cir c le uf tG mllt•H rudtuK; 7'.50H,000 within n ch-<·h· uf :n m ilcH rndlut<1 nnd 10,217!'1,000 within n cln•le uf 47 rnlleH rndluH.
E ssen. Germany, a c ity of 730,000, In the heart o r the rich lndustrln l cenwr of the Ruhr Valley, Is a n ld e~t l radiation point from which t h E> millio ns In this v ital area of the world C>\n be rea c h ed with the gospel which th(' apo>< lles preached.
Loyd Collie•· and Friedheim \Vaedlich, two o r the g •·oup that plans to move to the Ru hr Vnlley as s oon a s possible (abou t Ma r ch 13 fi2), were sent o n 5 September 1~60 by the \VIesbaden American congregation to make a th r ee-day survey o r the po ~~ lbllllles for beginning this work.
These men locntecl a lllllCC Co•· c onducting the first gospel m eeting as well us >t 111ace for w o •·shlp ser vice!' In Essen. They found th e c ity officials very helpful and friendly.
'rh o.~ first meeting and wo r s hip ~:<e rvices can b e t:onducted In a new high school auditorium where ma ny different types of well attended public assem blies are conduc ted.
In addition to locating the meeting places these brethren \'lslted four different memhers of the church who ll\'e in two neighboring cities. These soul!<, young In faith. urgen tly need a p lace to worship and a group to wor!<hlp wllh. 'l' hls need can be met anil the worl; In the Ruhr Va1-
l"y cAn s tart ns soon as someone who speaks German will com e to o u1· ald.
Mo ney ror ad,·ertlsing t he Clrs t meeting is available aud willing helping hands arc eager to s tart next spring ( 1961) it one, or bette r, two men would come.
Viill y ou s tart now getting ready to preach lh<' gospel to the los t In t his area where 2(•% of Germany's 54 million Jive?
These souls need y ou urgently.-S/ Sgt. D.
F'. Morga n, AF 18431890. Hq USAFE (DASA), APO 633, N. Y., N. Y.
Pepperdine Announces Fall Registration Figures; Slight Increase Over Last Year !\'early 1200 stu dents are e nrolled In Peppercllne College this term. according to figure>~
r eleased by the College's R eg is trar.
Breakdowns on t he 11~3 figure Inc lude 2~3 f r eshmen, 199 sophomores, 189 juniors, and 196 seniors. T here are 187 unclas ~
l fled students, 69 pursuing graduate work a nd 48 e nrolled for exte n s ion cours es .
T his Is a slight IncreasE' over the 1184
attending 'during th.; 1 95~ -60 term.
Junior College Enrollment At York Sets Record The !'nrollment Cor the first semester of the 1960-61 school year has set a record tor York as a junior col lege. The enr oll ment has g rown from last year's total of S& to a total of 116 for the first sem ester or the present term.
Of these. 100 a re from Christian h omes aud 20 of thel>c are young men who p la n to p•·each the gospel. Thes(' students come from 21 states a nd one American possesl!
ion. Kansas leads the list wllh 30 student:>, followed by Kebraska with 21.
Olh·er c. Cunn lughnm, 6813 R obin Dr., Cha t tanooga, Tenn., Oct. 14: Since a rriving at Tyner three have plnced membership, two have been r estored and three baptized.
Jesus Christ-the Way, The Truth, the life AU men must e<1mc to Cod.
Thnt wny is Christ. This nttr~ clive, twenty-two page booklet C>-plnins what it means to come through Christ in order that salvation miltht be had.
r-
$1 per doz.; $6 per 100; $50 per 1000
Orrler from FIR:\'1 FOUNDATION PUBLISHING HOUS'E Box 77 Austin, Texas Cash ....
Save it by sending in subscriptions to the Fffi)l FOUNDATION in clubs of 5 or more. The spt:cial club rate is $3 where the regular single subscription is $4.
SAVE A DOLLARI Subscribe for every family in the congregation and we will bear half the expense. Every family in a congregation r eceiving the Pll't;\f FOU:\'D:\TION entitles you to a s pecial $2 per family rate.
Save Two Dollarsll 715
Work in Turkey Progresses Leadership Training Program Scheduled at Norman, Okla.
Our work In Adana continues to move forward, with 32 1>resent for mid-week sen let' tonight. An airman !rom Incl rllk AFB confessed Christ and was baptized In the waters oc Lake Sey han.
The e lders ot the Central c hurch In Nor man.
Okla., announce a program o r "Ch u rch L eadt>r shlp Training" scheduled Cor Nov. 21-26. Roy 1..1\nler, Sr., ot P h oenix, Ariz., will conduct the series.
" 'e ar" cond ucti ng three classes a w eek In tho Arab Village and have a Turkish !>ervlee In Adana Sunday nig ht. This Is in addition to our rt•gula r Sunday mo rning service~ and our Service on Sunday e\·ening from 6-7 at tho Base Chapel.
The program Is designed prima rily tor e lcl et'l!, deaco n !!, llreachers a nd the wives.
BrothH Lanie r will conduct all c lasses for m en. ancl SIMter Lanier will conduct classes Cor the ladles.
Roy Lanier 111 emin ently qualified fo r this work through 45 years or working w ith c hurch eM, 15 oC "hlch were In evan gell!
ltlc worl<. Seven ycnrs he spent as h ead uf the Bible D e pa rtme nts o f t wo o f o u t· Ch r'I Htlan co ll ege~. lf !.' Is au t h o r of 31
Cottage Bible classes among the AmerIcan service personnel nnd Bible correspondtli1C()
cour ijCH In both E ng lish and T u r k l!!h a re In o ur program.
Rcmcmh<'r t he work In this :lroslem nation In ~· o ur p t·ayorH. ll elp u11 to encourage o thrr miH~< I o n ary fflmillel' to lool< t his way.
-Bill Mccown , l'oH t Offl<•t· Uox 213, Adana, 'l'urkcy.
book 11 and 2 1 r e ligious trn cts.
Clllii>!CII rot· Jli'Cneh e r il I ' ll n from 9:30 to 11:30 each mo rning. At noon each da y a lu ncheon will be ~erved. Hound table dlscusslonH will occupy the time from 1 to 2:30 each afternoon, and ('huu!es Cor e lders o..:cutlY the hour 7:30-9:30 each night. At this time a lso c lasse11 tor wives will be 1 .. D. Oerr)·, L'nlty, .\lain(', Oct. 13: '"e hn\'tl ju~:~t c lo,cd n 10-clay ml•t-tlng wllh C.
E. :llcCamle from Punta Gorcla, Fla., doing the 11reachlng. There were 12 ba1>tlsms. conducted. 716
e A Revolution rln Your favorJ In the Pricing of Commenfarlesl you may now own and enjoy a complete Bible commentaryl Matthew Henry and Thomas Scott COMMENTARY ON THE HOLY BIBLE in six, large, beautifu l volumes!
• Here Ia a com,.nlary lot everyone, at a price everyone can afford! All who read, study and love tho Sible con now ava il th- oelves of the wonderful opportunity Ia own a comple te llble co01monlory, In sht Jorge, beoutifu l volume&.
• Thla Is tho lowe at priced conuoontary of its kind on the morb i.
Cornmenlariu of thh size uoually aoll lor obout $30.00. looksellero who sell all types of commentaries are omared at lhls low retoll price, • Th is commentary Is explanatory ond practlcol, ot tho same limo lhol II Is devotional. It h voluoblo for all clones of roodoro, from the Individual l lblo student In hla homo to the minister In bls aludy preparing the Suncloy aermon, I XCI TIN(;
NEW!>!
tOWI!>T PRICI' T!looe wloo order l••edia tely ore taking advantage of tho t:J AI" /1 f'J 00/ special price d uring 1960. The cumo nl re tail prico Ia $21.95, """" fl•• 0 but lhb will inaea se to $23.95 on January I, 1961. You save $2.00 by ordering immediately.
-
S...,oa lCJI thct this COfllaentory t 1"1 US "the INJITOW Of Httuy Oftcf Scott."
'flte CHU!lntary proper COIUhlt ef lk flnetf of Mollhew Henry't CCNa ........ COrl• fulty ond •killhIUr blendct whh co•~ts hom Tho•OJ Scali. In addition, the,.
or- ~ 3,000 u planotory notet oft dltOcvlt pauao•• hoM More than o hundr-d other rcognind 1tudenh of Sulplure. Whhovt o dovbt, thl• h one of the finst co-• entarJ. on the matbt today, at a prlct which all c:on offonf, ORDER FROM FIRM FOUNDATION PUBLISHING HOUSE POST OFFICE BOX 77 AUSTIN 61, TEXAS ltUJ Lun te r, S r .
llullu 'l'lnklt· r . ' 216 Birch, Rawlins, '\yo., Uct. 17 : Four wl're baptized h ere d uring the first two weeks or ::;cptember. During tht• last or Sl'ptcmber I WllS away In a m~ctlng In C'rnlg, Colo. Seven w ere ba ptized through t hnt oJCCort. ' Ve a re h oping to hulld n ~ex t ~ IH' In g.
Invest with us in CHURCH BONDS nen rln ~ 6% from No\·. 1
$10,500 remaining of a $75,000
bond tssue. These a re all $5 00
bonds with 12, 13. and 14 year maturity dates. Will r eserve for you till after Jan. 1.
PORT NECHES CHURCH OF CHRIST 720 Ave. (' P ort Neches, Texas RAndolph 2-6739
Understanding the Bible ~luch confu>lon in thr rcU<;oo11s wurld l'\bb 1wc-.m"' mln)' sin· Ct!'JC souls fa ll II loJ\'C even on t•l.,ncnl41')' undrnl~nding n!
God's Word. This popular lr>ct has helped thoii\,IIIUS to ha\r n clear 11nd•·nt~ntllng of tlu• oblt.
$ 1 per ll o7~; $ 11 pe r Hltl; $50 t>er l 000
Order from l<' Ht:'\1 FOl ' XIl.\1'10X l'l' BL lSHH\G Honm Ho:\ 77 :\us tln, 1.'cxas FIRM FOUNDATION- NOVEMBER 8, 1960
Australln I>< ont• and one-fourth times tho~ :<l:.:e or the contlneutal United States.
There are mnny l·:ngllsh-speoklng cities or hundrt•ds of thou~ands where there Is no t>reacher or the gm111el. In tact, there are only half a dozen or ~<o In the <•ntlre land.
Th e Central dllll'd> In Bukert~tleld, which congre~a lion ><pOnHors 1 he Casella family In Australia IK undl•rtaklng 10 send another mlsslonar)' to ,\ ul!tralla. This time il Is the llnrrell Shoemake family of Dallas, Toixa:< They will go to Bundaburg, 300
miles north of FJr·h•bane. In Bundaburg a small group u f ~lxt~~n Christians already G. C. Brewer Memorials At Harding College Growing t'pl)n the dt•uth uf the IILte l;. Br·ewur his fu mlly r~co rnmt• ndcd that p~ople send n. c;ontl'lbutlon to llur d lntr Col l e~c to c r c,lte a memol'lul Hcholnrl<hlp fund ruther than ~e nd f lowortl. 1'ht• llmount o r $ 1307.00 has lH:cn contributed to this scholarship fund. 11 Is my feeling Lhnt Brother Brewer has nrany frlendtt who would II kt• to add to this fund until It becomes a s izable scholarship fund. 1'ht• Income from the fund will bt> used t•nch yenr to help a worthy ,lud.,nl In llnrdlnl( College. Additional r<>ntrlhutlt>ns will he ~ladly recel\'.,d, Tht·r,; has nlt<O bl'••n c rt•ntcd In the Jlardlng ('ollego• LIIJrary "Th<' Hrew!•r Library." In a ~ l>l'<' llll room ur·t• thl' tl"tlk and ~·hnlr that Broth"r Br<'\\'l'r Ul!l•d ~" long. Also l n this ruom nrc hiH '"''" t>rll•at e llhrnry books.
~lnny ~tudontt< l'ollnt It a rnrt• ln,plratlon w ~u lnlu th,• Brc11 o•r Ruom, sit In the Hr ~:wo•r chair at tht• Brt·11·er dc!Ck and read from Br<'wt•r hnokt<.
ntfi!C Hhnuld h•• ntldrt•sHo:d lo thl' Dusinc~s ~1anugt•r, llnrtllng Coll!•gc, Scar't'Y, Arkan"'"'
·-Uoo. S. Bt•nKon.
m('Cl. l~ ffo r·t,. b~· othe r tl, who trave l long distances to hclt> them, have p lanted the chur·ch In 13untlnburg. They hnve 111ead that someone btl ><t·nt to preach In the Qu<'!'n><land nreu of Australia.
Th,. Shoo~mak(' family, well qualltled for thiH work In ever')' way hnl! answered the call. and the Centra l church, dest>lte an alr ·eady h l'avy load hnK a~;reed to sponsor the dl'<>rt.
C'nnslll<'rabl<' helt> will be needed from utht:r hrethro~n both a .. to salary and tra\'el fund. For lnformrulon write the Centr al r hurt·h. ~25 Suuth I I, Bnkersfleld, Calif.
It""" \V. S" ltullt'r, ~007 O!<age Lane, St.
l.ouuls 11 . ~ru ., O•·t. 17: Since my ln><t •·eport thl're hnve h eo~ n nin<' baptisms nntl seYeral n ·>Horatlon s at the Overlnnd chur ch. One uf tho:<..- bapllzetl ll'aH a young Jewish man, father or twu, whf) IH s tudying very dill~ c n tly.
Juck llntl'>t, l!tOG I glh Strct't. Lubbock, Texns, Ocl. 23: 1'oday at Smlthlawn In Lubbocl< tlwre wat< one baptism, one restored, and 1\\0 by trnn ~< fer or m e mbership. \\'e hopo: to begin the tlrst unit of the Home Cor lhl.' Aged In tht• near future. \\'e haYe property for thlM purpo ~e ndjolnlng the ehun·h building. I t~rea ch('d In a He\'en day ml'ctlng at Cumcr·on Road In Austin, Tex""
· "h~:r., 13roth•·r \\"nllacP Gooch is the "nl'rJ;'!·tlt· and t·n(>Hhlt• minister. I nm to be at Vt·rnwnt A\'t•nue In Los Angelt:K OcL 31-
Nov. 6.
s .. nd In 700r O' VD "ub•crJptfon and one """' o n t'. Somt'nn., Introduced 7 0u to th., f"lrnt Poundntlon nnd ,ou found It goed.
Non •, r~tnrn the rn,rnr nnd Introduce IJOntennt' e l.,,. to lt.
Lubbock Church Begins Community Service Workshop Th,. first In a ~<eriell o! monthil· sessions called the Community Sen•lce ·workshop began on Ocl. 2~ at the Smlthlawn Church ot Christ In Lubbock. Dr. Paul Southern, head of the o~partment or Bible of Abilene Christian College, discussed "The Challenge of tho Family." A panel or four spPaker s nlso pnrtlcipated In the program with J o<' PhllliJlll >l!'r\'lng as chairman. D r .
Lowell Johnson oC Lubbock spoke as a physician; G<'orgo Stephenson of the Broadway Church spoke Crom the viewpoin t of the minister; Paul Cort:man of the Colgate C hurch spolte ns 11 manlage counselor, and J ack Bates, Dean or Lubbock Chr istian College, discussed the fnmlly as an educator.
The second In the series will be given Nov. 11. Jerry Chapman , child placement counsel or of the T exas Department of Public \Velfarc, will be the principal speaker .
His subJect will be "The Challenge of Children."
Th11 December speaker will be llr. Tom Cannon, Lubbock Ju\'enlle Probation O!ticer, whose subject on Dec. 12 will be "The Ch~tllenge of the Teen-Ager." A panel or four will nlso tnke part In ench of the workshops.
Other subjects to be discussed will be the needs or t<peclnl g r·oupH such " " the college student, the broken home, and the aged, along with such problems as alcoholism and narcotics.
Jaolt Bntes, mlniKter ILl S mlthlttwn states, "The \\'orks hop Idea Is an experiment to p roJPc t communi ty problems to church leadCrll nnd ()ther· brethren a~; lhe>1c challenge tht: church to Ken•lce. The flr><t workshop il< a" nearly a dynamic situation as l ha\'e C\'er Mee n. The c rO\\ded auditori um, the dlscul!sion that f o llowed the formal lecture, a nd the conc~rn nn the part oC all present In this probll'm, left a \'Ita! impact."
J. :\1. s" nll'unl, GOl Wa!thlngto n St., St.
Albans, W. Va., Ocl. 20: I concluded a meelin1> with Lhl' c hurc h In Hamlin, W.
Va .. Sept. 2 . ThlH wa11 the second meeting this year In which 1 worked with the congre!;
ntlon In Hamlin. ))urlug the course or this meeting thrt•t• were hapllz .. d and two wt•re reMo rerl. On Ocl. 16 I concluded a rni>'Hion mN:llng with the church In High l'olnt, N. C. Fl\•e Wt·re batnlzed a nd tl\·e wen· rc><turcd to fullowshlp. Brother Olan ll l<·k>~ Is doing an I'XCCllent work w ith the c c> n!P'cgntlon lhcr·l'. 'l'hla IH tr·u ly n mission area.
Neither Catnollc, Protestant nor Jew ~lony fed in our country that one m~Ut be C.thoilc, or prot· cstont. or jew In ordt'r to be religious. The und('llomirutioul pie~ of the church Is prn•'llted and the readt'r Is •h.,..., how one can foUow Chri1t "'thout d"""Ptinll a partial Gospel This !J also 1\'Jilible In Span·
!Jh version.
~1 Jll'r doz.; $0 JICr JOO; $00 per 1000
Order rrom F lll:\1 FOl'~U. \'1' 10~ l'l' JH,ISHI'NG Honm nox ';7 Alll;lln, Tcxns 717
CLASSIFIED Ad•·erth<lng In t bls xeetlon 3:'ic tier Urae. Desl,.;-ned eH(Jeeln ll)~ to nc COJun•odute congrCh"'llUonc nd,1e rthclnl!t tneetlng J»lnce~C , prenc l1erH xeekl n~ n •ork or congr~gntlont~ ~eeekl ng tJreochers.
AlHO othe)r nt~cCJ)tnhlc 1nnUer.
P R E,~CHER "\VAN'l'E D Fifth and M!trble C hurch oC Christ In Albuquerque, :>lew :\fexlco, needs a Cull time preacher Immediately to do local work.
Adequa t e salar y and home furnished to earnest and capable worker. For more info r matio n, address e lders o f a bove congregation.
WANTED-Minister to do full time work with a small congregation at l'ottsboro C hurc h of Christ. Pottsboro, Texas. Con tact 'l\ F. Stn,lr,::er"'• 4!!5 A nltu, Sbertunn, 'rexntt, l'hone 'J"\V :!-~32.
PREA(.;HEH "\VAN'rEO Congr egation of 35 In city of 10,000 Jleopte n ee d~ a qunllfled man to do full time per,on a l wo•·k anrl P•·each lng. N ice b •·lck hom e for the preacher. lf Interested. write giving age, oxp('l'lence, and •·efer e nces t o the Donglmc (" hurch or Chris t , Uox 02, OOUI<'JnH, Gn.
PRf;ACHER W A:-ITED: Small town ot nhout JfiOO population, m embership of 65, would li lte to havo an a cli\'e p e •·sona l worke •· locate h ere. Tr Interested. con tact E lder"", C hurch of C hrhd, Box 22:!, RoMC:bud, 'f'exn,..
Specializing In c hurc h building Jlrograms utilizi ng the full potentinl ot the congregation- for '\\"estern area. Cnllnhnn Con~<
truc tlon . 4S~a "\V. I mperlnl. Inglewood, Cnllt. Phone: OR a -1419.
T om E. Bergin, the Church builde r. saves you 10%. 201:1 Denucbllnt!l, Hou~ton D, ' J'eXOI!I.
New Jersey-:\'ew Egypt Cbnrch O{ ChrlMI Doy Scout Unll Sundny-10 & 11 AJI, & !'i:31) P.;'\1, T hundnys 7:30 PlU.
Con••enlent to lUcGulre & Fl. Olx 1\lllltnry nn,.,eH nnd l ~nkf• hurJiol t N lr~·nJ A ir Stn11on "\Vrlte Church of C hrbct, ]'.0. Box 1:!1, N'ew Egypt, N'. J., or coli PLotenu 8-8Z04
:\tEXICO ~IEXl CO CITY-Church or Christ, San Borja 1010. Colonia Del Valle , Tel epho ne ~ 3-24-90. :'lllnlster. Agustin G. Figueroa L .
MONTERREY, NL. - Iglesia d e Cristo, C h u•·ch of Chris t. Salvalle rra and Acam baro Sts .. Colon in Las :\11 trn~. Telephone 6-22-90. ) lln lstcl', Humberto F igueroa L .
C II UllCH OF CHRIST ANCHORAGE. ALASKA lOth A\·e. & B St.
Box 3H. Phone BR 4-5904
Pat C. :'llc :'llahan. EYangellst Res. Phone: BR 4-7091
Send five friends the Firm Foundation this year. You can do it for $15.00.
C~iCil9C CHURCH OF CHRIST DOWNTOWN Central YMCA Auditorium 19 S. LA SALLE ST.
• Bible Classes, 10:00 A.M.
Worship, 11:00 A.M. and 6:00P.M. ~
Wednesday Bible Study, 7:30 P.M.
WORSHIP WITH US -~~·
718
Glasgow, Scotland To Build Baptis ms continue In G la~go\\-, Scotla nd.
A la rge attendance of n eighbo r hood c hildre n o r t he Cnstlt•mil lt additions con tinues In the Sunday Bible c lasHe~. A building lot Is now available for p urchase and Is n t>a r th e present public school which can t·ontinue In use as Bible classes. Breth•
·en Jerr y Porter of Glasgow and Ea r le llrc '
MIIInn wore both able to r each home In advance of their mot h e r s ' dcMhs. These hristlan mothers will be remembered Cor their unselfish sacrifice of the companion!<
hlp of sons In foreign evangelism.
B•·othe•· i\J c ~111lan is located In Edinburgh.
\\'e are hapm· oYer the r etur n or \Vuync JoNI)'u, 1'. 0 . Box 602, B r ush. Colo., Oct. 15: This congrt:gatlon wns six years o ld Aug. 29, 1960. Although we have o nly 32 members we are nO\\" sclf- Ruppor·ting. l closed a m eeting in Canon City, Colo., Oct. 5, w ith two rcf!ponses.
Cecil Curkrc n, Gl 2 , V. rark Ave., Greenfi eld, l nd., Oct. 20: I n the past two months n ine haYe been buptized Into Chr ist. three confessed fault and two placed memberRh lp. ln a r ec,nl m eeting In Battle Creek, Mich., where I d id l he preachi ng, 23 re!
it>Onded l o l he gospel and many were baptized.
Bro. Rufe Higgins of :lcl\tlnnv ll le, •renn., j us t closed a m eeting h e r e with four responses.
G. S. "\Ve><throok, Baymondvllle, T exas, Oct. 18: 1 c lo»ed my fourth meeting at Russellville, Ark .. last '\Yednesday night.
B•·o. Lloyd Spivey has been working w ith them three months and Is s tarted In a good "ay. A man and his w ife were added to the working forces during lhe meeting.
Local fo r ces carried on at Raymond\'llle while I was awa)', T echnical "\Vrll<'r l. Must be a b le to w·rit e to :'llllltary Speci flcn lions. 2. Must he ex perienced. 3. Grad u:\le Elecu·onlcs o•· Mechanical Engineer preferred. 4. Between 25 and 45 years of age. 5. \\'rite to D. R. Light Conwany, 15 16-15th Street. :rollue, Illinois, Attenllon: !11r.
Seldon S. Ridenour.
Snlt!smRn: 1. \\'illinJ.;' to locate In 1111dwcRt city. 2. :\lust he able to sell intangible and mana~ e offlc,.
:1. Expel'lenc., In r. r n )lhlc Arls hel pfu l. 4. B(•tween 25 and 45 years or age. 5. \\"rite ton. R. Light Company, liil6-15th Street. Mo line, I llinoi s, Atte n t i o n : J\'fr.
D. H. Light.
Truman C larl< to Scotland. H e is In the a ir service a nd wns of great heiJ) to us In t he early day:,< In Edinbu1·gh. B r ethren l'c> r ter and Dale Buck ley n r e locat ed In Glnsgow. Financial HUJ)por·t may be sent to Searcy College Churc h of Christ, Searcy, Ark., checks mnde o ut to "Glasgow B u ildIn!('
Fund." Or checks made to "Church or Ch rb;t in l;Jasgow" may be sent to Royal Ban k of ScolllUld, Duke Str·eel B•·anch, Cla!lgow, Scotland. The natiYC b r ethre n nrc co-opc•·atlng Calthfully and g ivi ng JlbHally.
They are d eserving and the work Is most promlslng-.-Ciyde P. Findlay, 1262
College, Topeka. Kansas.
Retreat in Korea ~IIIItn r y pe•·sonn('l or the chur c hes of C'hr·Jst i n. Kot·en w il l gat her at the C h a plains Retreat Center In Seoul. Korea, ! or special services Dt'C. 9-11. A. R. Hollon who recently re tu rned to Korea to the Church o f C hrist Mission In Seoul wil l be retreat ma~ter.
nr. George S. Bl'n~on, Pl'N;Id cnt of H arding College, will be the main speak er for thl' retreat.
Pleniee "\\' rite the "fen In lioren If you h:lvc •·e Ja tiveH In Ko•·ea, write them nt once concerning t h is retr eat, givIng t he da t es n nd p lace. T he Ret reat Cente•
· Is easily renched from downtown Seoul.
'l'his meeting will be a great Inspiration to the military personnel. T hey w ill live t ogeth e •· on the grounds a nd wi ll meet and s t udy for thrtJe days. L ocal me n panlclJJtltlng In the •·c trcnt wil l be Malcolm Pa•·slc)•
who r ecently arriYed from ~e mphl s, Tenn .. and Dan Hardin. from Albuquerque, New :\[exlco. who has been In K o rea tor two years.
l{orenn Pren~ht•ri'C Ali'CO ~t ee t Korean preache•·s also will gathe•· for n rt'lreat at the t• h urch b uilding on the m l!r~ l on g-rou nd s Dec. 6-1 1. D1·. Bens~ n will ddJ.-er spcria l n ddr esse~ to them d u r in g this weel<. One or the great c r eative works we are doing hero Is In these retreats ror Kort>an JH'enchcrs. A week of s tudy and fellowship togcther Is of great help to t hem.-A. H. H oltOn, Ch UI'Ch o f Clll·ist Mis~ l on, A PO 301, San Francisco. Call!. -------0-------
Jnme>< ~1. Oc·nNun. 1420 North S hore Drive, San Benito. Texas. Oct. H: Seven have udtled hy ldbntlflcatlon, two have been re~ tore d , and f l \'C baptized he r e.
FIRM FOUNDATION- NOVEMBER 8, 1960
37th ANNUAL LECTURESHIP Harding C aLLege SEARCY, ARKANS·AS November 21~24 .. 1960
Theme:
"Christian Education" The 87th Annual Lectureship of Harding College during Thanksgiving week is keyed to CHRISTIAN EDUCATIONone of the most vital questions before Christians today.
Five dally meetings, with lectures and discussion periods, and 21 daily classes-all conducted by experienced personswill cover . Christian education as a responsibility of the home, the school and the church. Problems and opportunities of Christian education will receive full coverage in the lectures and discussion periods, with the classes concentrating on improving the abilities of individuals to do more and greater work for the Lord.
Among regular blessings of the Lectureships are the excellent opportunities for Christian fellowship, songs and music by Harding student. groups, free rooms for early applicants, a free Thanksgiving barbecue, and a Harding Bisons basketball game.
For reservations, program and infor1nation, ·write: W. B. WEST, JR., DIRECTOR OF LECTURESHIP HARDING COLLEGE SEARCY .. ARKANSAS SPEAKERS Rex A. Turner Hugo McCord Music Goebbel George K. Allison W. K. Johnson Don Finto Neal Bryan Carl Brecheen Richard Baggett Robert Heltrten Bill Patterson Arnold Watson Robert Riggs Shelby. Forkum Chester Hunnicutt J. C. Choate Melvin Wise George DeHoff Campbell Pullias R. D. Fuller Dr. L. M. Graves Joseph E. Pryor James Atkinson ·Clifton L. Q-anus, Jr.
Everett Evans Cliett Goodpasture Paul Ayers Fred Barton G. K. Wallace Donald Earwood Alan Mitchell Joe Betts James 0. Baird F. W. Mattox Cleon Lyles Jim Bill Mclnteer K. V. George Marshall Keeble TEAOHERS J. A. Thompson Russell L. Simmons Jack Exum J. L. Dykes Jack P. Lewis John McRay Richard Batey Jack Wood Sears JD. Bales Andy T. Ritchie, Jr.
Mrs. Walter J.
Calvert Joe Hacker Donald Sime E. H. Ijams Mrs. E. H. ljams Ponder Wright Neil Cope Earl I. West '119
proof of the worth ...
• • • is in tangible results Radio and television evangelism is proving its worth with results-souls who have first heard the gospel over the airwaves and gone on to become Christians.
IN NEW YORK ... a successful young opera s ing€'r was dissatisfied with her life, despondent, wondering about the he reafter . She began reading her Bihle for consolation, heard a HERALD OF TRUTH program which agreed with what s he h ad been reading. Today she is a Christian.
lN COLORADO . . . a native of Colorado, visiting in Texas, heard one gospel sermon over a Dallas radio -station that opened his eyes to the truth. He later be<'ame a Christia n.
IN TEXAS . .. a young man is a gospel minister today because sermons on the liERALD OF TRUTH showed him the responsibility that individuals have to the Lord.
These are just a few of the many across the nation . . . actual incidents of conversion and Christian development as related to the elders of Highland Church of Christ.
The gospel message on radio and television is powerful . . . consistent and it reaches out to millions.
---------------------------------------------------------------------1
HlOHLAND CHURC H. OF CHRIST P. 0. B ox 1858, Abilene, Texas As my personal co n Lrlbutlon to h elp spread the gospel of Christ by means ot r adio and television, 1 wiJI p lan to give: S---------··-------- weelcly. $------------------ monthly.
t enc lose (ci r c le or write In):
$-------------- $100 $50 $25 $ 10 $5 $2 $1
N a n1 e--- ----- -------------------- ----- - -------------- ------- -----
Address _________ -------- - ----- _________ CIty----------- ----------
720
I I I l I I I I I I \ Von't you he lp todny . .. gene rously ... •·egulurly . .. 1md with R purposed !Unount?
HIGHLAND CHURCH OF CHRIST Box 1858 Abilene, Texas (Th is ad paid for by friends of Highland)