New Social Security Laws fori Preachers
An amendment to the Social Security Laws extends the deadline for preachers to select voluntary coverage to April 15, 1962. A further amend- ment makes totally disabled preachers of any age eligible for benefits
(not only those over fifty as before) if they have participated in Social Security for as long as five years.
Christian Hymns No. 2 Contains Favorite Hymns
The Christian Herald, a widely-read magazine, recently conducted a vote poll to determine the most popular songs and hymns in this country. About thirty thousand readers reported. "The Old Rugged Cross" oc- cupied first place; second place went to "What a Friend We Have in Jesus." It is heartening to know that, while some modernists would have stricken from our hymnbooks all songs which feature the redeeming merits of Calvary, the best-loved hymn is one that exalts the sacrificial death of Christ; and the second most popular praises him as a friend "that sticketh closer than a brother." (Prov. 18: 24.) These two, as well as four hun- dred fifty other songs and hymns, are found in our most popular hymn- book, "Christian Hymns No. 2."
"We Object!"
Writing under the foregoing heading, the editor of the Baptist and Re- fiector, a weekly published in Nashville, made some interesting observa- tions in the issue of November 17, which we are disposed to pass on to our readers.
"During the recent presidential campaign there were, what appears to be, thinly veiled attempts to muzzle preachers and intimidate churches. As for the first, a Senate investigator according to an Associated Press story turned over information to Senator Keating of N. Y., which might according to the story, 'lead to a full scale bigotry probe.' As for the second the state director of Internal Revenue Service in North Carolina is reported to have warned churches and foundations that they might lose their tax-exempt status for 'political activity.'
"The two very debatable things here are what is meant by 'bigotry' and 'political activity.' Too frequently of late 'bigot' has been a club over the head of any who dares voice a different belief to the clubber. 'Political activity' has been cried against any claiming religious faith has meaning for all life.
"Efforts to silence pulpits and intimidate churches threaten freedom. When men can no longer voice their religious beliefs without being tagged 'bigots,' religious freedom is dying in the USA. If churches can no longer provide through the mail educational material dealing with the church-state issue religious liberty ends."
If "churches and foundations" are thus to be penalized for having spoken against the union of church and state and similar evils, then such penalty poses limitations on freedom of religion and on freedom of speech. Are we headed toward a "police state"? Whether justly or not, Rome will likely get credit for this move to penalize those who have dared to speak their convictions on recent issues.