Brother Walker's Work at Walnut Street
D. Ellis Walker gave up the work as evangelist of the Walnut Street Church, Dickson, Tenn., the last of October, and is now laboring with the loyal congregation in Gainesville, Fla. Brother Walker is held in the highest esteem by the brethren at Walnut Street. He
"resigned" of his own accord.
It has been this writer's privilege and pleasure to
preach at Walnut Street from time to time during the last forty years. He preached before, during, and after Brother Walker's years of service. It is seldom that a preacher is able to see a congregation grow in every way, as did Walnut Street while Brother Walker was the reg- ular preacher.
The Bible school attendance increased about 70 per
cent; the contributions, 60 per cent; and the congregation
has grown in grace and numbers. The original buildings
were redecorated; a new Bible school building erected; and a radio pro- gram and a library started. Six additional elders, J. C. Canady, J. R. D o w n e y, Finley
Duncan, Clyde Fus-
sell, J. Mitche11
H a y e s, and James
Nicks were appoint-
ed. These are men
of vision and con-
secration.
Brother Walker
held many meetings
in the county dur-
ing his almost six
ye a rs at Dickson;
preached about two
hundred funerals;
and officiated in a
large number of
weddings. He had
as his faithful asso-
ciate preacher and
Bible schoo1 di-
rector, Ronald Oliphant. Brother Walker stood a tower of strength against all hobbies. It is little wonder that the Walnut Street brethren hold him in such grateful remembrance.
Dear Brother Goodpasture:
I want to express to you my appreciation for your friendship and fellowship during my stay in Dickson, Tenn. You have not only been a help to me personally but to the entire church. I know of no one who is appreciated more by the knowing people of the con- gregation than you. Your sermons to this congregation during your annual visits were instructive and helpful and your presence built up the morale of the congregation. You stood by us in a very try- ing period. Only those people who have been in the midst of those who would destroy our orphan homes and Herald of Truth program could appreciate the meaning of your friendship and support.
I hope that you will permit this expression of appreciation to be spread on your editorial page. Believe me, we appreciate you.
Sincerely yours, D. Ellis Walker
Walnut Street church of Christ, Dickson, Tenn.