A Statement from a Former Catholic
(The following article was written by Mrs. Eleanor Stennerson, a former Catholic, whom I baptized some years ago. The article came to my desk too late to appear in an earlier issue of the ADVOCATE. We pass it on for the consideration of our readers. It is especially interesting and significant since it comes from one familiar with Catholicism.)
I imagine that the most bewildered persons in the country today are the "lay Catholics." They, along with a shocking number of "Protestants," are asking, "Why should a man's religion keep him from being elected to the office of President of the United States, of which he is a citizen and for which he would lay down his life if necessary?" and "What difference does it make where Mr. Kennedy goes to church?" No one cares where Mr. Kennedy goes to church nor are well-informed people prejudiced against the Senator merely because he is a member of the Catholic Church.
One fact is very clear and that is how uninformed the general public is on the subject of Catholicism. One can understand why the "Catholic layman" is so uninformed because he lives in a pro-Catholic atmosphere from the time he is born until he dies. His history books in school are deleted and doctored, especially the Ancient and Medieval, and even the history of this country is entirely pro-Catholic. He has to adhere to the "Index,'' which is a list of books forbidden to him, he must if at all possi- ble attend Catholic schools, he may not attend any religious service other than his own, and he has his own clubs and societies in which he moves. He is taught that the Catholic Church is the only true church and that all the "sects," as they designate all "Protestant bodies," are false. The Catholic will tell you that this is not true but this fact has never been changed in their own documents. The Catholic doctrines, which they call traditions and claim are those taught by Jesus Christ, are based on the ancient beliefs of the pagans and the traditions of Judaism, brought into the early church by these converts, incorporated into the church during
the Council of Trent to confound the "Protestant Reformers,'' composed with the utmost caution and after long protracted discussions, expressly to counteract the influence of those truths which the "Protestants" of the sixteenth century so clearly and boldly promulgated.
It is essential to remember that the Council of Trent indiscriminately ratified all the traditions, decrees, bulls, and enactments of every prior Pope and Council without exception and also every opinion, determination, and legend of the Roman Catholic priesthood in all ages and countries. I doubt very seriously if there are one hundred Catholics in the country who are familiar with the decrees and canons of the Council of Trent.
It seems to me that the American Catholic would be puzzled and in- deed curious, when the "clergy" of the Catholic Church come forth as they recently did with the statement that the "Catholic Church in America is different from that of other countries of the world." Why this difference? How long would it remain "different" should it attain the majority here?
The Pope will remain in Rome as he always has and Senator Kennedy says he will exert every effort, if elected, to uphold the Constitution of the United States, but his election would supply prestige certainly, and would pave the way for those men who would not see things, as Mr. Kennedy says he does, politically. Catholicism is an involved and obscure organ- ization and the Vatican is a political power with ambassadors to almost every nation in the world. This country was founded on Biblical prin- ciples. The New Testament church does not send out political ambas- sadors and the "American people" are suspicious, and rightly so, of a church that does. What most people do not understand about Catholicism is that it is composed of two separate parts, the Hierarchy and Laity. The Hierarchy comes from two Greek words, meaning "sacred rule" and the Catholic Hierarchy is the governing body. Why are the American Prot- estants afraid of the Catholic Hierarchy? Because it is the governing body of a dictatorship. Now the Catholic layman does not regard this hierarchy as a dictatorship. When it forbids its members to read a certain book, it is with the reminder that by reading it, their faith might be weakened, therefore the faithful feels that "Holy Mother Church" is looking out for their best interests.
World seeking religious freedom nor since 1928 when Al Smith was defeated because he was a Catholic, but we have changed in our attitudes and our re-
To the Catholic his religion is the most important
thing in his life. When he sets out to convert his sponsibilities and how unfortunate for the future of
neighbor, his county, his city, his country, it is with a loyal zeal that overcomes all obstacles. He seeks to live the principles in which he believes, and thus his infiuence is so strongly felt that those who do not know the laws and doctrines of this organization are honestly puzzled at the controversy raging now throughout our land. They do not count it loss of religious freedom to have church rule. To them that is good because "Holy Mother Church" guides men into the right paths. When the Catholic hears of "Protestant" missionaries being persecuted in Spain and in Italy he says with honest sincerity, "Well,
those are Catholic countries and it upsets those peo- ple of other religious beliefs to come in. They have been Catholic for centuries and these missionaries have no right to come in and destroy the beliefs they have had for centuries." They do not question, how- ever, their missionaries who come here from those same countries because their church is "the true one" and we need to be converted to the true church! It is interesting to note that the hierarchy does not as- sume responsibility for the persecutions of gospel mis- sionaries in Catholic countries, stating that these acts of violence were committed by "fanatical Catholics." When a person of that faith censors the movies and plays for the public, to them that is not loss of a freedom but is good for the people's morals. When a book is forbidden to the Catholic he instinctively knows that in some way that book will weaken his
faith or morals and he obeys his hierarchy. The American way is to select your children's books with care, but when that child is an adult he is to read what he pleases, go to the church he pleases to go to, see the plays he wishes to see, attend any religious service of any church he pleases and no one may say to him that he may not under pain of mortal sin, nor for any other reason.
our Democracy!
Mrs. Harald J. Stennerson 210 Leonard Avenue Nashville 5, Tenn.