The Morning After
Earl West
The Kennedy millions, the Catholic Church, the Labor Unions and a large sprinkling of political partisans combined to elect the first Roman Catholic president of the United States. What lies in the future? Thou- sands scan the horizon for a portent.
Will the next four years witness a noticeable decline in religious free- dom? Will the Roman Catholic Church dominate the government? Will the Catholic Church gain numerically at the expense of non-Catholic re- ligious bodies? These are some of the questions many are asking in the early hours after the election.
DANGERS NOT IMMEDIA TE
For a number of reasons the next administration is not likely to bring
a noticeable difference in the religious status quo in the nation. First, the constitution is still intact. No president, however rich or powerful, can walk into office and overnight rip out of the highest law of the land those constitutional guarantees for religious liberty and the freedom of worship. A change here would necessitate a long period of preparation. Second, the area in which an executive can operate is limited. He inherits innumer- able problems from a previous administration which cannot be pushed aside. He has constant checks on his power from legislative circles, and is under constant surveilance from newspaper editors and special-interest lobbyists. .Third, the non-Catholic population of the nation is still too large and formidable a barrier to permit aggressive action against non- Catholic religious groups. President-elect Kennedy is much too astute a politician not to realize this.
BASIS OF CONCERN
However, while any immediate concern seems to be ill-founded, this
does not mean there are not justifiable grounds for anxiety.
A Roman Catholic's view of all non-Catholics remains the same. Cath- olics view other religious people as in error, outside the fold of spiritual safety, and a constant lurking danger to their own spiritual and religious welfare. The Roman Catholic Church's supreme task is to keep her mem- bers away from contact with non-Catholics as much as possible. For this reason she must have her own schools, forbid her members from attend- ing a non-Catholic worship service, and constantly warn them against reading "Protestant" literature. Moreover, she must maintain her own youth organizations, her own veteran's organizations and her own women's and men's clubs, etc. From birth to death Catholics are sheltered
against "defiling" contact with non-Catholics as much as possible.
That this spirit, which is part and parcel of Romanism, can believe in the right of all men to worship God as their conscience dictates is a com- plete absurdity. Bigotry is written into the Catholic religion; it cannot promote religious freedom. A loyal Roman Catholic practices religious bigotry against his neighbors and acquaintances every day as a part of
what is expected of him.
Thousands of Catholics, especially in the large eastern cities, voted for
Kennedy because he was a Catholic. Radio and TV news analysists and newspaper columnists and reporters freely recognized this. But nowhere were Catholics subjected to the criticism that non-Catholics received from these sources during the recent campaign. Why is bigotry wrong when practiced by non-Catholics but permissible when practiced by Catholics?
Why was not the Catholic religion assailed on this point in the same manner as non-Catholic? The method of handling this problem by news- paper and TV mediums is the most shameful aspect of the whole political campaign.
It is remarkable that Roman Catholicism has been able to guide public opinion into thinking of their religion as not only completely harmless but as the real architect of the principles of American religious freedom.
Herein lies the real significance of Kennedy's elec- tion: the power of Catholicism to sway public opinion in its own favor. In part, the growth of Catholicism in America has accounted for this. Twenty-four per cent of the population is Catholic today, as compared to sixteen per cent thirty years ago. The 1960 esti- mate of forty and a half million is one million over the 1959 statistics, and shows an increase in one year of over six per cent. The growth comes in part from a large birth rate in Catholic families, from heavy immigration from Europe, particularly Hungary, and to some extent from converts from Protestantism. With this growing number, however, Cath?>licism can increasingly make itself a force with which to reckon.
Furthermore, Catholics in all walks of life put on a conscious effort to win friends. An aura of cour- tesy clusters around Catholic leaders in all walks of life-from the football coach at Notre Dame to the businessman and the politician. An aura of piety walks with every priest who appears in a movie or TV western. For thirty years Catholicism has had its best foot forward in every area of public relations.
The result: while Catholic numerical growth pushes upward, she is building the unconscious im- pression in American society of being the bulwark of religious liberty.