Youth for Christ
The foregoing is the name of a new department which begins with this issue of the GOSPEL ADVOCATE. Mack Wayne Craig, Dean of David Lips- comb College and evangelist of the Charlotte Avenue church of Christ, will provide material for this most helpful feature of the paper.
All parents should call their children's attention to this section of the ADVOCATE. They will find it to be "just what they have been looking for." It will provide them with interesting and helpful instruction from the pen of one who is a recognized "specialist" in dealing with young people and their problems.
By all means send the ADVOCATE to students away from home in col- lege. Many are already doing it.
Now Is the Time
This is the season of the year when persons are thinking about reading material for the winter months. It is a good time to secure a club of sub- scribers to the ADVOCATE. This is a most effective method of teaching the truth. We have readers who regularly send the GOSPEL ADVOCATE to those whom they hope to convert to Christ.
"A Book of'Gems"
This is the title of one of the latest books from the Gospel Advocate Press. It is composed of the best selections from the pen of Benjamin Franklin, a great pioneer preacher-in some respects the "noblest Roman of them all." No preacher, teacher, or Bible student can afford not to have this volume. It contains 500 pages and sells for $5.
Concerning this remarkable volume, Rue Porter, editor of the Chris- tian Worker, says:
"'Book of Gems,' by Benjamin Franklin, came to me last week. I hardly laid it down until the last line had been carefully read. I had read 'The Gospel Preacher,' Vols. 1 and 2, and consider them the best books of sermons in my collection. This one, however, is even better. Gospel preachers can ill afford to be without it. Brother Franklin was a truly great man, and easily ranks with Alexander Campbell in the field of exposition and analysis of the very te;xt itself. I thank you for having made this great book available. May it have a large sale, and the greatest truths it set forth prove to be of great benefit to the readers."
"I've found a big, dusty thing,
High up on the shelf, Mother, look!"
"Be careful, Johnny dear, that's the Bible, God's holy book."
"God's book," the child replied,
"Then Mother, before we lose it,
We'd better send it back to God,
For you know we never use it."
- Author Unknown.