Television Network to Air Sermon on Catholicism
The National Broadcasting Company sent a camera crew to the Hills- boro church of Christ in Nashville, Sunday, October 9, to film portions of a sermon delivered by Batsell Barrett Baxter, on the theme "A Danger- ous Doctrine." The films are to be shown on a coast-to-coast television program, "Chet Huntley's Views," on Sunday afternoon, October 23.
Baxter's sermon, approved by the elders of the congregation, estab- lished from authoritative Catholic sources the centuries-old doctrine of co- existence of Catholics with non-Catholics in countries where the Roman Church is not in control, but intolerance and suppression of non-Catholics in countries where the control is solidly in the hands of Catholics.
Having established this basic doctrine, from authoritative Catholic sources, Baxter then went on to say that the doctrine was being carried out in such countries as Italy, Spain, Mexico, and Central and South American countries. He mentioned that even the Communists in Poland allow to Catholics more freedom of religion than Catholics allow to Prot- estants in Catholic-dominated Spain. Mentioning no political parties and no candidates running for election, Baxter dealt exclusively with the threat to the cause of Christ in lands where Catholics gain control.
As an unexpected feature of the service, just before the final dismissal prayer, Representative Joe L. Evins, United States Congressman from Smithville, Tenn., asked to be allowed to speak. He launched a vigorous attack against the sermon just preached and spoke of it as delivered for "slanted partisan political purposes." When the service was over the con- gregation rose overwhelmingly to stand with the elders and the preacher in endorsing the position taken in the sermon. So strong was the feeling that Evins had delivered a political speech at the wrong time and in the wrong place that he "apologized" to Baxter as he left the building, saying, "If there was any indication of reflection on you, I would express my apologies."
The distinguished Congressman from Tennessee is a respected states- man and a Christian gentleman, but his attack on the sermon of Brother Baxter was most ill-advised and unfortunate. It will have religious and political repercussions for many a day.
We can strike no peace with the Vatican as a matter of political ex- pediency or otherwise. We are not interested in extending a "new fron- tier" to include the Pope and his State. The Bible still describes the Pope as "the lawless one," "the man of sin,'' and "the son of perdition" (2 Thess. 2: 3-5); and the Romish Church as "Mystery Babylon the great, the mother of harlots and of the abominations of the earth" (Rev. 17: 5). We shall have more to say of this church, "the woman drunken with the blood of saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus." (Rev. 17: 6.)
The great Hillsboro congregation, of which the editor is an elder, will stand unflinchingly with our esteemed evangelist in his defense of truth and exposure of Romish error on the Lord's day last, and at all times.
Copies of the sermon may be secured without charge by sending a re- quest to the Hillsboro church of Christ, 2206 Hillsboro Road, Nashville, Tenn.