Are Song Books Authorized?
Guy N. Woods
Some weeks ago we discussed, in these columns, the question, "What Constitutes a Musical Instrument?" One of our readers writes us as follows:
"We see no mention of the early Christians using a 'songbook' in their worship and if they did use a 'songbook' it is evident that the music was not written along with the words as we have it to- day in our modern songbooks, because the present method of writing music was not invented for centuries after the church was in opera- tion. Therefore, is not worshiping with a book with the music writ- ten along with the words an innovation and not commanded just as much as singing when the whole tune is being played on an instru- ment? With an instrument my ear guides me in singing and with the wrltten music my eye guides me so that I sing in harmony with others who are also singing. I can find no more authority in the New Testament for using songbooks with music written, than there is for the music instruments. Please discuss this question in the GOSPEL ADVOCATE.
We are glad to give attention to this brother's question, not because it is likely that any of our readers would experience difficulty in distinguish- ing between the use of mechanical instruments in worship and the use of songbooks, but because this letter affords us an opportunity to teach an ever-needed lesson on what constitutes authority. We are not disposed to enter into the question he raises as to the type of book in use in the apos- tolic age nor the manner in which the music was written. It is enough for us to know that the early church utilized the use of "psalms, hymns and spiritual songs" (Eph. 5: 19), and a collection of these constituted a "book" (see the dictionary definition of a book), whether such is specifi- cally mentioned in the New Testament, or not; and, by whatever name it was known at the time. Our brother would not seriously object, we think, to the conclusion that a collection of psalms would be a psalmbook, of hymns, a hymnbook, of songs, a songbook! Thus, the mere fact that no mention is made of such does not justify the conclusion that none existed; and, when he writes, "Therefore, is not worshiping with a book with the music written along with the words an innovation and not commanded just as much as singing when the whole tune is being played on an in- strument?" his therefore is a non sequitur; the conclusion he would draw does not follow from the premises.
His reasoning follows this pattern: That which is not mentioned in the New Testament is unauthorized in Christian worship today. Songbooks are not mentioned in connection with Christian worship in the New Tes- tament. Therefore, songbooks are unauthorized in Christian worship to- day. Our brother's fallacy is glaringly apparent. His erroneous conclu- sion stems from the unwarranted assumption that because a thing is not specifically mentioned in the New Testament it is, for this reason alone, not authorized. He is eminently correct in his conclusion that unauthor- ized matters may not properly be injected into religious worship. He errs, however, in concluding that a thing not mentioned is necessarily un- authorized. This defect in reasoning is by no means an uncommon one. The failure to distinguish between specific mention of matters, and au- thority often leads to misapprehension and misrepresentation. For exam- ple, Brother A concedes that the details of a practice in question are not designated in the New Testament, but insists that the practice is permis- sible; Brother B immediately concludes from Brother A's concession that Brother A believes it is proper to engage in matters not authorized in the New Testament. Brother B's reasoning is obviously fallacious. A matter may be authorized, though not specified in the New Testament. The com- mand to perform a duty, authorizes (though it may not specify) the details necessary to its discharge. Baptisteries are not ized addition, an innovation. The principle involved speci:Qed in the New Testament; they are, neverthe- is this: A command carrying with it the means or less, authorized, since the command to perform the method of procedure is specific; and, the means or
act (in this instance, immersion) justifies the means essential to its performance. The New Testament makes no mention of church-owned meetinghouses; insofar as the record reveals, no apostolic church ever was seized of real estate, the practice thereof, so common today, terminating this side of the apostolic age, by some hundreds of years. Nonetheless, we may confidently affirm that it is scriptural for churches to own meetinghouses today, since the ob- ligation to assemble authorizes the means essential thereto. Our querist is thus in obvious error in his assumption that because songbooks are not specifi- cally mentioned in the New Testament they are un- authorized innovations.
But, if songbooks, though not mentioned, are au- thorized in the scriptures, why may we not regard mechanical instruments of music in worship in the same fashion? Granting that such are not mentioned in Christian worship, since some matters may prop- erly be engaged in, though not specified, why is it not allowable to use organs, pianos, and other me- chanical kinds of musical instruments on this basis? This is the crux of our brother's question.
We answer that the use of songbooks in the wor- ship, and the use of instruments of music therein, fall into two entirely different categories. Songbooks and singing (an authorized act) are co-ordinate, they are of the same rank or order. Songs are essential to singing; singing is commanded (Eph. 5: 19); it is, therefore, impossible to discharge our obligation without psalms, hymns and spiritual songs. A collec- tion of these, we have seen, constitute a psalmbook, a hymnbook, a songbook. Instruments of music and singing are not of the same rank, or order; it is nec- essary to have a song in order to have singing; sing- ing is enjoined; therefore, songs are essential; it is, however, not necessary to have an instrument in or- der to sing; the instrument is not co-ordinate to sing- ing. As a matter of fact, the instrument injects a for- eign element into the worship-playing. One does not sing by playing; thus, the playing becomes an addition and an innovation.
We may illustrate it thus: The elements of the Lord's supper instituted by our Lord are bread and the fruit of the vine. In none of the accounts thereof is there mention of the vessel to be used in connec- tion with the bread. We nevertheless affirm that it is scriptural to use a plate on which to place the bread in the observance of the Lord's supper, inas- much as it serves merely as a means to discharge the obligation. Its use in no way alters, modifies, adds to, or takes from, the service enjoined. Suppose, however, that one should insist that with the bread flesh should be added on the allegation that to some people his would aid them in more properly visual- izing the body of the Lord than the bread alone! In such a case the flesh (meat) would be, and would be correctly regarded as, an unwarranted and unauthor-
method indicated is essential to the performance of the command. A command not specifying the means is generic; and, the means are to be supplied in the most expedient manner possible. Unfortunately, there is the disposition evidenced occasionally to in- vade the realm of expediency and presume to estab- lish rules regulating matters in this area. All such should be solemnly warned of the fact that it is as wrong to make laws as it is to break them!