Alexander Campbell and the Kentucky Female Orphan School
The Kentucky Female Orphan School was one of the first institutions of its kind established by those associated with Mr. Campbell and other pioneers of the Restoration Movement.
Dr. L. L. Pinkerton, of Midway, Ky., was one of the founders of this school, or combination school and orphan home. It is said that while he was seated in the pulpit of Old Round Top Church, in Madison County, Ky., "his eyes rested on the frail form and sightless eyes of a little blind girl," and that he then and there was inspired to do something for "the poor and friendless." (Life of Pinkerton, page 39.)
In the Millennial Harbinger of 1846 (page 419) Dr. Pinkerton announced his intention of establishing an Orphan School and stated that he intended to "obtain a charter next winter and press the matter on to success." The Doctor further said, "It is not my intention by rearing the institution, or in any way, to make the brethren responsible for its failure; although if it succeeds, and it shall succeed, the Lord willing, the churches of Christ shall have the credit." Alexander Campbell prefaced and commended the plan of Dr. Pinkerton in these words: "The following project of our benevolent and indefatigable brother, Dr. Pinkerton, seems to be as prac- tical as it is humane and Christian, and would seem to merit the kind consideration of the philanthropic and wealthy portion of the Christian community. I know not why the Romanists should engross almost all the female orphans in our country, and induct them into the dark supersti- tions of Babylon the Great, the Mother, &c, &c. May not we Protestants take care of orphans and widows as well as they?"
In November of 1848 the Harbinger carried a more detailed announce- ment concerning the proposed Female Orphan School. To this Mr. Camp- bell prefixed the following note: "I commend this benevolent institution to the generous consideration and aid of the friends of female orphans in the noble and magnanimous state in which it is located." (Page 712.)
A charter was obtained from the Legislature in 1846. The board of trustees was composed of John G. Allen, Lewis B. Crutcher, P. S. Fall, John T . Johnson, James W. Parrish, William F. Patterson, L. L. Pinkerton, and B. P. Smith. (Kentucky Female Orphan School Bulletin, 1929-30, page 4; Giovannoli, HISTORY OF KENTUCKY FEMALE ORPHAN SCHOOL, page 37.) By fall of 1849 the grounds had been obtained and the first building erected. Its doors were opened to sixteen girls whose ages ranged from six to eighteen years.
The ground and first building were paid for by money supplied largely by the church and individuals in Midway, Ky. But before the school opened, John T. Johnson, one of the trustees, wrote on June 13, 1849, a strong appeal for the school, which appeared in the Harbinger of October
(page 589) . Among other things, he said, "There are some forty or fifty churches in the heart of Kentucky that could finish the work entire with- out feeling it. The very heavens would resound with praise and joy at the accomplishment of so grand and benevolent an enterprise.
"Would it be imprudent or unbecoming to make an appeal for a thousand dollars' endowment from each of the following churches (he mentions about two dozen congregations)?" He said the church at Mid- way had done the double of it. Then he concludes, "Individuals and churches, therefore, who wish to aid us, we trust, will act without per- sonal visits. As agent for the institution, I will visit churches and hold meetings when I can, an_d receive subscriptions at any time."
In 1856 Mr. Campbell visited the Kentucky Female Orphan School. He commended it again. "At Midway, said he, Woodford County, that home of female orphans, under the patronage of the noblest of Christian philanthropists known to me in the valley of the Mississippi, who has had,this year, under the wings of his protection, some his third attendance would have been that recorded
eighty orphans, receiving such an intellectual, moral, and Christian culture, as will make them honorable, able, and useful co-operants in the great work of hu- man redemption." (MiUennial Harbinger, 1856, page 394.) It is worthy of note that Campbell spoke of the Orphan School as "that home of female orphans." It was intended that the school, or home, should ex- ist for the purpose of "clothing, feeding, and educat- ing orphan girls." (History of Kentucky Female Or- phan Home, page 29.)
Yet in view of these statements from Alexander Campbell, we are confidently told that he "never changed his position on the congregations' charge or oversight of its widows and orphans." The Kentucky Female Orphan School was under a board of trustees.