The Terrible Trends
The Disputer
The trends, the trends, the trends are terrible! They are varied. And they are treacherous. While searching for them in the lives of others, lo, they appear in our own lives. And, strangely enough, we know it not. This is tragic. It is easy to detect a trend in others, but difficult to detect a trend in ourselves. The focus is the deciding factor! We usually find what we want to find, where we want to find it. We cannot mention all the trends- they are too numerous. Let us call attention to a few, some of which have been sadly overlooked.
1. The Negative Trend. The New Testament is replete with both neg- ative and positive teaching, with emphasis on the positive. When we pre- sent both negative and positive teaching, our teaching is safe and sound. But when we omit one and give full time to the other, our teaching becomes unsafe and unsound. One preacher devotes full time to the negative side. His one and only dictum is, "Thou shalt not." One issue of a "brotherhood paper" contains a dozen or more articles, and every one is on the negative side. The negative trend is a dangerous trend. It leads to apostasy.
2. The Faultfinding Trend. Now, the faultfinding trend is a mighty good one, provided we begin at home. But when the critical eye is forever focused on another, evil results will follow. When we think that all evil trends are on the outside, we delude ourselves. The Master condemns the mote finder and reminds us that he has a beam (a glaring fault) in his own life. (Matt. 7: 1-5.) In the personality of a faultfinder the greatest faults are embedded. Beware of the faultfinding trend. It leads to apostasy.
3. The Meddling Trend. The New Testament church is an autonomous institution. The Lord wills that each congregation should manage its own affairs in the light of his word. The guardians of a congregation are not on the outside, but on the inside of the congregation. The teaching pro- gram of the church is under the oversight of its elders. But times come when some self-appointed guardian outside the congregation seeks to take over the teaching program of the congregation, by flooding the membership with his own literature. Such an effort undermines the eldership and tends to uproot the doctrine of congregational autonomy. Do not be a "meddler in other men's matters." The meddling trend is another road to apostasy.
4. The Gnat-straining Trend. (Matt. 23: 23, 24.) All New Testament principles are not equal in importance. Some matters are minor, other matters are major in importance. We are in error when we take up a minor matter and exalt it above a major matter. We recall that the ancient Phari- sees strained out the gnat (a minor), but swallowed a camel (a major). We can easily see that the gnat-straining trend, if continued, will lead to apostasy. (Read 1 Cor. 13: 1-13; Eph. 4: 1-5.)
There are good trends, of course. Every good trend should receive our encouragement. However, at this time we are thinking of evil trends. Every evil trend should be discouraged by the Lord's people. There are more roads to apostasy than one. We should avoid all roads leading in in that direction.
Are you watching for trends? If so, you are doing a good work, pro- vided your eye is turned in the right direction-the inward direction. The heart is deceitful. It is an easy thing and an agreeable thing for us to overlook evil trends in our own hearts and lives, and to focus attention on the movements of others. This pleases the devil, the arch deceiver. Yes, let us by all means avoid apostasy in every form. Let us avoid the apostasy that stems from the negative trend, from the faultfinding trend, from the meddling trend, from the gnat-straining trend, and from every other evil trend. This we can do by subjecting ourselves to a little more self-scrutiny, by forgetting pet theories and dogmas and deductions, by imbibing the spirit of love, by devoting more energy to a positive program, by giving more time to the study of the Bible, by preaching the gospel just as we find it in the Book.