Elsewhere this week we carry the second article of Brother
Robert F. Tumer, mention of which was made editorially last
week. We urge the reader to read both articles.
Brother Turner brings out some fine thoughts relative to
individual responsibility. We believe it would be fine if preachers
generally did some real study upon the subject, and a lot
of preaching upon it consequently.
We have gone through a period in which we have preached
countless sermons upon the organization of the church, duties,
responsibilities, and authority of elders of the church, etc. All
this has emphasized the congt·egation, and de-emphasized the
individual. Such consistent emphasis softens us up for a sort
of institutional Christianity in which each one of us wants to
do his church work like most of us are doing our mission work
-through somebody else.
It is time we emphasize individual Christian duty and respons
ibility. When every member of the church is co-operating
as he should with every other member of the church, we will
have the real uni ty_ f or which Jesus prayed.
We appreciate Brother Turner's emphasis upon this subject,
but we cannot follow him in concluding that since this is true,
there is no room for collective action among Christians on any
other than an inside-the-congregation basis. We do not believe
the Bible teaches any such doctrine.
We cannot accept Brother Turner's statement that "The
church un iversal functions only as individual Christians serve
their Lord and Master; .... " There must be a place and hence
a wo1·/c for congregations. Congregations would not exist were
there no cong1·egational obligations and responsibilities. Brother
Turner's affirmation does away entirely with any need for congregations
or "churches." If his statement be true then "whatever
t he individual does the church docs." In his attempt to
destroy congregational obligation he goes completely to the
other extreme.
Brother Turner's statetn<mt in italics, "the scriptures authorize
no collective action among Christians at la1·ge pu rely on
t he basis of t heir being membe rs of t he body of Christ" is in
direct contradiction of 2 Cor. 8 in which Paul did urge and
command collective action upon the part of all churches of Macedonia
and the church at Corinth in the relief of the poor saints
at J erusalem . This coll ective action was urged upon t hem as
churches. I Cot-. I G: 1 says, " ... as I gave order to the churches
of Galatia, even so do ye." Here was congregntional action
in co-operation with congregational action.
The contention that a congregation cannot exist where there
is not a plurality of Christians does not in the least disprove
the right to co-opet·ate between congregations. It may prove
the possibility of serving God without being in a congregation,
but it does not prohibit congregational co-operation. Such an
individual certainly would not "have elders," but the possibility
of his serving God in that capacity would not disprove
the right and rightness of "ordaining elders in every church."
We believe the thought that brethren in a given congregation
differ from breth ren at large only in that they are engaged in
"collection action" does not fo llow. Brethren at large are engaged
in "collective a ction" with any other who preaches the
gospel. This is the only way in which members of the .~a.me
cong?·egation engage in "collective action."
When Brother Turner held his meeting in Flagstaff, he says
he was not a part of that local congregation. Yet he was engo.
ged in collective action with all t he bt·ethren who composed
that congregation. By his own proposition he is guilty of
doing the very t hing he writes against- he put coll ective action
496
upon a basis other than that of the local congregation. If h ~
proposition is tl·ue, then one not a member of a local congn:
gation could not even hold a meeting for t he congregation without
inter-congregational collective action!
"Collective action," says Brother Tut·net·, "is of, pertai ning
tG, or derived from, a number of individuals taken or acting
together; common. Formed by collection of individual persons or
things; gathered into one; taken as a whole; aggregate, collected."
That being the case, in any Sunday afternoon singing
you have collective action upon a different level than the
"congregational" level.
In fact, since Brother Turner limits a congregation so closely
a visiting preacher cannot be a member of it, t hen neither
could visiting saints who happened to drop in. If they joined
in the singing, or even the prayer, they would be guilty of
"collective action" on other than a congregational unit level.
This doctrine is really a "closed communion" proposition, not
only t·elative to the Lord's supper, but to all t he rest of the
worship as well. This position would make sinners out of all
visitors, who would be guilty of unscriptural co-operation.
All g1·oups of saints have the same leadership, direction, or
guida nce. J esus Christ is the head of the church-the only
head. And saints, whether as individuals or groups (congregations)
are subject to him, and as such have a common leadership
or director. If this oversight is recognized anarchy will
not reign among groups who co-operate in carrying out Chri st's
will.
(1) If " coll ective action" requires a "pooling of means cmd
abi lities," and (2) if as Brother Tut·ner rightly contends, one
holding a meeting for a place is not a member of t he congr~
gation, then we have plenty of examples of intercongregatiom.
co-operation . Phoebe is a case in poin t (Rom. lG). Peter and
John in Samaria is another.
If individuals who cont ribute "act as one" in pooling t heir
funds in a common treasury for the purchase of services and
goods, did not the churches of Macedonia "act as one" in pooling
in a common treasury their funds for t he relief of poor
saints at J emsalem? Why would one be "collective action"
while the othet· would be "concurrent independent action"?
We fully agree that "the organizational structure of the
church begins and ends with the independent congregat ion,"
but we do not agree that because t his is so, co-operative (actingas
one) action between two or more independent congregations
is strictly forbidden. We believe the script ures tea ch that congregations
did , and can, co-operate, and that t hey should wot·k
closely together- even to t he point of merging if necessary.
If t.wo congregations can merge t heir membet·ship, surely t hey
could merge theit· labors.