New England Is Coming to the Front
The churches of New England have, in recent years established
the practice of conducting an all day lectureship on Labor
Day. This one day affair is held at different locations and
under the sponsorship of different local congregations each
year. This year the Groton, Conn., church sponsored rthe event,
and we had the honor of sharing with Pat Harrell and J ack
Scott the major speaking duties. Brother Scott spoke to a full
house in the morning, lunch was served on the grounds, Brother
Harrell spoke in the a.flternoon, and this editor at the evening
service.
This type of meeting is not new. Churches in Ontario have
been conducting an "Annual Meeting" for over 100 years. References
to such meetings in the early days of the Restoration
Movement are abundant. Special occasions bring members of
many congregations together for such periods of fellowship,
and have for generations. The churches of New England find
that such a day of feilowship serves a noble and effective purpose.
A considerable period of time was given at Groton to reports
of the progress of the Lord's church in each of the New England
states. These reports were a source of encouragement to
all. Some· fifty gospel preacher labor now in New England,
and perhaps that many congregations thrive.
Among them is the church in Groton, one of the youngest in
New England, and also the largest. The brethren the~·e have
just completed a new building which will accommodate about
four hundred, and are having upward of 200 in attendance at
their regular ser1ices. Brother Gary Freeman preaches for
the group, and a good and efficient leadership characterizes the
congregation.
It is really encouraging to see the growth of the church in
New England. This was not our first trip into the area. On
other visits, the church numbered a handful of scattered congregations,
each with b::.rely enough members to <!Xis't. The
picture is beginning to change. Several own comfortable buildings.
Leadership is beginning to develop among bt·ethren na·
tiv·e to the area, and the spirit of progress is manifested by
every group. In Maine alone there are seventeen congregations
now-more •than the whole six state area had just a few years
ago.
We never cease to be impressed with the opportunities of
the church in the Northeast. Here cities of several thousand
join boundaries with each other. A third of the population of
the nation is jammed into a tenth of the land area. Radio stations
have immens·e coverage. One newspaper may reach hundreds
of thousands. One highway sign may be seen by millions.
Another thing that impresses us is the calibre of young men
-most all of them, as in all of the mission fields are young
men-who preach the gospel in the Northeast. (New England
is simply the Northeasternmost section of the Northeast.)
These young men are all scholarly, well poised, close students
of the Book. They are zealous and courageous. They know
how to stand against error for they meet it in strange and
varied forms every day. Somoe of the best sermons we have
ever heard anywhere have been delivered by these men in New
England. Most of the men there are still supported by brethr
en outside the area. Very few works are fully self-supporting
at rthe moment, but many of them are approaching that
status. We urge churches who already have an interest in that
594
area to continue it. As the work you are supp{)rt ing is able
to carry its own weight, there is plenty of room to step over
into the next community and plant a congregation there. The
second effort will be easier than the fi rst because there are
some rthere now perhaps who are faithful Christians, and there
are other faithful Christians in nearby areas upon whom a new
effort can lean for support. This was not true up until now.
It always takes more time, effort and money to establish a
beach-head than it takes Ito broaden the effort. We feel that
the hardest work in New England has been done. That does
not mean that the struggle is won by any means. It simply
means that we now have something there worth defending, and
a prospeot that further funds there in an effort to evangelize
the area can be expected to bear a much greater rate of interest.
We would like very much to see brethren concentrate upon
the heavily populated northeast and pour men and money into
the field until the church is planted in every community and
within reach of everyone who might avail himself of the only
opportunity to learn of New Testament Christianity. A little
now would mean so much later. Would it not be fine to have
a congregation every two or three miles all over the. Northeast?
This could very easily be done.
BROTHER WALLACE'S ARTICLE TO BE AVAILABLE
IN TRACT FORM
Elsewhere in this issue appears an article by Foy E. Wallace,
Jr., that will be of interest to every man and woman in America.
M,OOO copies of it are being printed in tract form, in
addition to its appearance here. This will be the first edition.
We think there will be others.
We are receiving an abundance of "hate" mail in the Firm
Foundation office as a result of articles recently appearing
relative to the claims of the Roman Catholic church Ito the right
to control the actions of its members in public office. All this
mail is simply an indication of what a calamity it would be if
this country were ever to fall under the influence and domination
of any group whose source of authority was in another
civil state outside the United States. It is also an indication
of the fact that it is later than you think.
These 25,000 copies, while they last will be available in 100
and 1000 lots at $1.50 per hundred and $10.00 per thousand.
We urge that people everywhere order them and use them.
Reprints of any article appearing in the Firm Foundation may be had
far $12.00 per 1000 copies. Orders smaller than 1000 copies not accepted.