LOOK YOUR PAPER OVER CLOSELY THIS WEEK
Indicative .of~:the .. ~~plendid way in which the Firm
Foundation is pebtg received among brethren is the
, fact t})at its subscription lists now stand at an all time
high~ in fact;:·:several thousands higher than at any
previous point J:n the paper's 76 year· history. For
hundreds of en~'Qitraging letters, and for the many sact-
ificial efforts uppn the part of those who love and support
the Firm Foundation and the things for which it
stands,·· we are profoundly grateful. Time does not
allow·a personal'word of thanks to each of those who
have helped expand the circulation and influence of
the Firm Foundation, and so we take this means of
saying to one and all that we appreciate every effort.
We do not propose to speak for the brotherhood.
And we would be quick to disabuse the mind of any
that the Firm Foundation might be a sort of "headquarters"
for the church of Christ. It is· simply one
of the mediums of teaching and information available
to Christian people. We purposefully reduce the staff
written material in the Firm Foundation to a bare
minimum, and. encourage and promote the widest possible.
coverage of writers and ideas consistent with
wh~t we conceive to be the teachings of the Scriptures.
We encourage the presentation of new and fresh ways
of presenting old truths, and have a special warm
place in our heart for creative thinking. This makes
the Firm Foundation a live, up-to-date publication
serving the needs of the brethren.
We do not use the Firm Foundation as an avenue
of answering our critics. Personal criticisms we consider
unworthy of answer because, if just, they cannot
be answered, and if unjushtime will prove the critics
liars and save us the trouble. The hurt we receive
from unjust criticism will be temporary; the real damage
will be received by those who swallow the criticisnn.
. .
W~ publish many opinions with which we do not
agree. We believe every man has a right to express
his opinion. And often there are many ways of doing
a thing, all of which may have merit. We turn down
doctrinal articles we believe to be unsound. We do
not wish to be a dictator, closing the avenues of expression
with an air of popish infallibility; neither do
we intend to throw the gate open to all the muck that
flows into a religious publishing house. Either course,
we believe, would render the Firm Foundation unworthy
of brotherhood confidence. Our. attempts to follow
the above course are not perfect. But we do try.
The task of being an editor is not a simple or easy one.
We are often charged with inconsistency by inconsist-
6.f21
ent people. And we plead guilty. No man on earth
is 100% consistent. . . .
This course has gained· for the Firm Foundation the
respect even of: its enemies-which accomplishment
isn't easy. ~t has gained the support of:a host of loyal
and true brethren whose efforts in its behalf have
raised its circulation to an all-time high, even despite
ne~essary· subscription price increases last spring.
We are entering the last quarter of 1961, and during
that period the Firm Foundation a_.nnually conducts
a subscription drive. We ·send out no paid subscription
promoters. Even our staff writers do not work
any more in subscription interest than do all other
interested Christian people. We have depended in the
past, and do now, solely ·upon friends who love the
Firm Foundation and the things for which it stands.
Our drive ·this fall will be divided into three parts
(1) The renewal of every old subscription; (2) the
solicitation of new single subscriptions ; and ( 3) an effort
to encourage subscriptions for every member of
the congregation in as many communities as possible.
Read carefully this week's issue. Isn't it fine to see
the paper again? Doesn't it make you feel thankful
that it is available, with its wealth of spiritual food
every week in the year? This week's issue is average
-nothing special. Over fifty times this much is yours
each year for less than the price of a couple of tickets
to a ball game! Look at your subscription label. If
your subscription has run out, or if it will expire. in
the new few months, RENEW NOW and subscribe
for· a friend or relative. Send in a club of six or more
subscriptions at the special price of $3 per year and
save a dollar on each.
As a ·special inducement to brethren to subscribe
for every member of the congregation we are willing
to bear ONE HALF THE TOTAL COST. We will
suppzy a private subscription to every memb~r of your
congregation at ONE HALF the regular pr1ce, or $2
each. Just send us your correct family membership
list and we will do the rest. Furthermore, you can
pay your half of the bill annually, quarterly or ~onthly.
This is a bargain you cannot afford to ~nss. It
will never cost-it always more than pays 1ts way.
The presence of the Firm Foundation in the home of
every member of your congregation for a full year
will pay its own way. Try it a year and see.