We are extremely interested in a "Gifts and Bequests" program
being introduced to the public by Abilene Christian College
this fall. Some phases of it are described elsewhere in
this issue of the Firm Foundation.
The service· which can be rendered through this information
program will result in much good for the church, and for other
good works · h1 which Christians engage, but especially does it
offer hope for Christian education.
Gifts to Christian schools ate always needed, and needed immediately.
Enrollment records in every school among us are
being broken regularly with the beginning of each new term.
The brotherhood is constantly besieged with financial drives
for operational funds for these schools. While all these drives
are important, and necessary, we have not stressed nearly
enough the value and importance of deferred giving through
wills and trusts. As a matter of fact, we have not stressed
nearly enough the Christian's responsibility to prepare a valid
will. In this connection we are running this week Brother Gilbert
McLeskey's reminder under the heading, "Extending Your
Stewardship."
Abilene Christian College is to be commended in making available
specialized information prepared by some of the Nation's
best attorneys, on such items as making a will, the need for
legal council, the need for estate planning and the tax-saving
advantages of gifts and legacies.
If anyone has ony doubts as to the magnitude of financing
Christian education in the immediate years ahead, theY: would
have been dispelled by recent censorious reports. They indicate
a population increase all out of proportion to the normal trend.
The birth rate since 1943 has skyrocketed. An unprecedented
crop of youngsters fill public schools to the bursting point.
National organizations of various kinds are spending vast
sums in an effort to awaken us to the sober fact that present
educational facilities cannot possibly care for the influx of
students now knocking upon their doprs. We seem doomed
to the prospect of denying an education to thousands upon thousands
of our young people simply because there is not room
enough for them and not enough teachers for them.
Private institutions of learning are especially hard pressed.
They do not share the tax dollar. After all taxes have been
paid, those who have paid them must then turn .around and
pay the extra cost of private schools.
Are these private schools, such as our Christian colleges,
worth it? It seems to us that this is a question that must be
answered now. If they are not worth the added sacrifices, then
let us abandon the project now before money is spent upon
them. If they are worth the effort to keep them alive, then
let us willingly pay the bill.
The bill is tremendous. Several of our schools now have
as much as ten million dollars invested in permanent buildings
610
and other assets. One of them apP-roaches a three-million dollar
a year operating budget. A part of this budget is met by
high tuition, a part by other services rendered and a part by
endowment earnings. However, at best, no student pays, generally,
more than 60 to 75 percent of the actual cost of his education.
Parents who pay the full bill for a student in one of
our colleges may feel that they have paid his way and that he
owes no other obligation. They are badly mistaken. If one
has paid every charge levied by the sehool in full, he has paid
only 60 to 75 percent of the cost of his child's education.
The rest must come from the gifts of good people who are
convinced that the benefits of an education in one of our Christian
schools are worth the investment.
There is no better investment than an investment in the
youth of the land. Youth, educated in a Christian school where
God is honored and where the moral and ethical principles of
Jesus Christ are taught in every classroom and exemplified by
every faculty members, will be the backbone of society tomorrow.
Most of our higher education is especially designed to
destroy faith in everybody and everything. Free thinking,
which, in its finality, recognizes no other god but self, has been
enthroned throughout the world of higher education. If we
surrender our youngsters now, we doom the world tomorrow.
We are thankful that there are a few islands of resistance
left to this God-debasing trend. We are thankful that there
are among us colleges where students are still taught to believe
in something and where that faith is then used as a platiform
for the construction of a life and citizenship that can
stand like the Rock of Ages against the changing and ever
shifting currents of our times.
We firmly believe that whatever hope we may have for a
better tomorrow rests with the home, the church, and the private
Christian school-none of which are tax supported, and all
of which produce and strengthen the faith we live by. The
new Gifts and Bequests program at Abilene Christian College
should be able to inspire hundreds and thousands of gifts and
bequests for Christian schools and other worthwhile works
among us.