BROTHER TURNER WISHES TO BE HEARD 'AGAIN
\
Brother :Robert Turner, whose two articles appeared, together
with our comments, in the Firm Foundation of August 2 and 9,
sends a ~bird, together with a letter insisting that we misunderstood
ent~ly hi~ contentions, and with the req~est that this
third article· be published.
We hav~ ··no· !desire to misconstrue ·the teachings of anyone.
No point c~ be gained by it. We have seen so much in print
in recent y~ars that attempted to distort and twist what another
said that '*:~ are completely sick of· it. And so we are happy
to give Br:Qther Turner space to make himself clear.
If we mi~nderstood his writings be assured that it was after
the most c~~eful reading we have given any man's paper, at1d
t{such wa's·:the case we fear that others may have done the
same~ Ordinarily, it is not hard for us ~ arrive at the point
to which a writer is driving.
We urge that the reader reread the articles of August 2
and 9 carefully, together with our replies.
We feel that there is scarce need for a lengthy reply to this
third article. We believe Brother Turner is a conscientious and
good man. We count him our friend. This does not, however,
keep us from concluding that he has drawn an extreme conclusion
regarding congregational cooperation and is striving hard
to justify it. If brethren want to hold these views as opinions
we believe they may do so, although, we would not care to hold
the same opinion at all~ But when these opinions are taught
as doctrine they must be opposed.
The stage is always set for a type of "fellowship" for which
there is no divine authority when one contemplates a combine
of local congregations after the order of a hlerarchy, with authority
handed down from the top escutcheon. But wh~n ~he
fin,al authority as to whether a congregation does or does not
do a certain thing rests solely with the congregation, and no
other, there is none of this danger. And that is the way it has
always been with us.
So long as congregational cooperation is purely voluntary
there can be no such thing as a "functional organization among
churches." In this respect we thoroughly agree with "the F.F.
contributor who writes: 'to my way of thinking, there would
be as much unity and harmony among different congregations
as there is among individual Christians of a single congregation."
If every individual Christ' is a member of the body of
Christ, and if Christ's body has no other units than the individ;..
ua·l members as per the article of August 2, then pray tell us
why there should not be unity and harmony between every member
of Christ's body-just as much unity and harmony as between
any segregated or congregational group: of those members?
If by "organization among churches" one means a pyramid
type authoritative structure with authority over congregations,
of course evel"f faithful Christian would oppose it, but if by
the expression one refers to a voluntary association together
of congregations for the common good, such as would occur
in a city-wide gospel meeting, or a local radio program or newspaper
advertisement, jointly supported by congregations, we
must insist that such an "organization" (if you could call it
that) violates no principle of the scriptures.
We do not believe that prejudice causes us to fail to appreciate
the point of our brother's article. We still think it is a
hobby. The conditions combatted by the article simply do not
exist among brethren. Any attempt to make voluntary co-operation
a digressive usurpation of congregational autonomy falls
flat. All brethren we know would oppose with equal vigor any
. 626
encroachment upon congregational autonomy. Most of them
simply think that some are seeing "boogers" that are not there.
We have nothing to add to the review of the second article,
other than to ask again that readers reread both. · So far as
we know no brother has ever tried to insinuate that the "messengers"
of 2 Cor. were either "a local church, or a distinct and
separate organization within the universal church." What we
do want to point out is that Paul gave some distinct and specific
instructions for the "organizing'' of this expedition, which
was neither of the above.
If "sending money by a common messenger is not a '.pooling'
any more than we would 'pool' our funds with the Methodist
and Baptist churches if we sent checks in the same maH bag"
then why all this smy arrangement by which brethren of this
persuasion insist on sending individual checks straight to a missionary
in Norway or straight to the radio station? Are they
more allergic to 'pooling' after this fashion their checks with
the treasurer of some congregation than they are with the
Methodists and Baptists? If this is all there is to it why not
"pool" in a common "messenger" the checks of .different congregations
for either a missionary or a radio program or a
newspaper ad? Since this is all there is to "pooling" money
sent through a common treasury (messenger) why all the hue
and cry about "direct support"?
We do not think Brother Turner drew the conclusions m~ntioned
because we do not believe he followed his own arguments
to these conclusions. But we do believe that these conclusions
are inevitable if his argument is followed. The reader
be the judge.
To us there is no practical difference in "collective action"
and "cooperation." If by "collective action" is meant a superorganization
of congregations with stratas of authority higher
than the local congregation then nobody believes in that. If
by the term he means two or more congregations "acting as
one" in standing for the same thing, pushing jointly toward
the accomplishment of a common goal, or supporting jointly
a certain good woi'k then "collective action" means the same
thing as "cooperation." Maybe 'the whole trouble is a defin_ition
of terms. Perhaps he has coined a term and given it private
definition to fit his proposition.
We most certainly do not wish to attribute to anyone a position
he does not hold. Brother Turner is a good thinker and
a good writer and we are glad for the Firm Foundation readers
to hear him, and urge that you give fair and unprejudiced
consideration to his articles. But we are still unable to agree
with him either in his conclusions, or in what we think is the
inevitable conclusions, of his arguments.