HONOR TENT MAKERS
When Claudius C'resar commanded all the Jews in
Rome to lea\'e the city, among lhose who were affected
b~' the decree were Aquila and Priscilla. These two
were tentmakers, who, when !hey came to Corinth,
began to ply their trade there. Paul was another tentmaker
who ha{'pened that way, and, because they were
of the ~a me craft, they li ved together and worked together.
Under our present chiy Hrrangement most brethren
would insist the~t Paul should have l'een free from all
nece~'s ity of worl<ing with hi!-\ hands that he might
give all his time to preaching the gospel. But it
seemed to work out pretty well for Paul to labor with
his 0\\"11 hands to support himself. He seemed to get
a lot of preaching done despite the handicap.
To the Corinth ian church he later wrote: "Even
unto this present hour we both hunger, and thirst, and
are naked, and arc buffeted, and have no certain dwelling
place; and labour, working with our own hands :
being reviled, we bless; be·ing persecuted, we suffer
it:" (1 Cor. 4 :11-12).
Later to the Thcssalonian:-:; he wrote: "For ye remember,
urethren, Olll" labour and travail: for labouring
night ancl day, because we would not be chargeable
unto any of you, we preached unto you the gospel
of God" (1 Thes. 2 :9).
The preaching of Paul atTectecl the world as nothing
else has. He was a powerful figure upon whom fell
"the care of all the churche~ . " Yet, he was a laboring
man \Yho supported his efforts at preaching with his
efforts at tentmnking.
We worry some about Lhe modern trend toward a
professional clergy. It is our opinion that the impression
is being left among college students who "aspire
to the ministry" t hat it is a profession to be followed
in much the same way as any other profession. Jobs,
and promotions, and salary, and salary increase, and
houses, and utilities, and car expenses, and discounts,
and advantages of various kinds occupy entirely too
much "preacher conversation." It could well be that
we are losing sight of preaching the gospel for the
sheer joy of saving souls and pleasing the Lord.
We do not say the group of tentmaking preachers
among us is decreasing. We hope it is not. But we
would like to encourage that group. Our hat is off to
those men who support themselves at some "secular"
task and who then preach the gospel to the lost. Some
of the finest men we know are so engaged. Some have
sold the-ir possessions and moved to areas where the
church is weak that they might preach the gospel
where it has ne,·er been known. Others have taken
school teaching positions that they might help strug-
:;.1(1
gling groups of brethren. Often the church in a community
is upheld almost entirely by a single storekeeper,
teacher or caq1enter whose tentmaking acth·ities
have made the effort possible.
Vle arc spending vast sums in "mission" areas, and
that is good. But some tentmaker could perhaps go
to these same communities and nccomplish the same
results while making a living at his trade. Most of
us think we can put a little more money in the collection
plate to hire somebody to go for us, and that that
will satisfy the Lord. We doubt that it will. How
much better, and how much more in harmony with
the scriptures, it would be if tentmaking church members
took the gospel and their trade into new communities
with the purpose in mind and ~eart to support
the one with t he othe1·. It is our opinion that a young
man can go into a community and put the church before
the community in a far better and more forceful
way by becoming a tangible part of that community
than by being su pportecl by a d'istant, and to the community
hidden, source of income. We had rather risk
him as a clerk in the postoffice, or a teacher in the
public school than as simply an itinerant missionary.
A community looks upon such as here-today-gone-tomorrow.
They look upon tentmakers differently.
If we wait to convert the world until enough aspiring
mi~sionaries make enough trip::; among the brethren
to raise enough support and enough travel fund
and enough operational fund to convert the world, we
will still be waiting when Gabriel comes. People will
be born and die faster lhan we will reach t hem that
way. Gospel preaching ·in such quantities as can convert
the world can never be supported in the way ·we
are now doing it. Ii will only be when members of
the church are filled with enough enthusiasm to go out
on their own-supporting themselves-with their own
tentmaking activities and preaching the gospel as Paul
did, when they can where they can, that we can ever
expect Lo make a dent in the heathenism and error
that encir cles the earth.
The real honor thai goes to gospel preachers should
go to the tentmakers among us. Most of the rest of
us get paid a plenty for what we do.