Let Us Tell You What We Teach
Various conversations with non-members of the
church convinces us that most of the rabid opposition
we encounter, t.he greatest obstacle to mutual good
will that ought to exist between people of all religious
beliefs, springs from a misunderstanding of what we
teach. This is usually true of misunderstandings between
brethren. The chief cry that arises from members
of various parties of believers among us is that
they have been m·isrepresented and misunderstood.
This is usually true. We must concede that most
ever yone is conscientious-that he is true to his convictions-
and that his position, though in opposition
to ours, ·is assumed honestly. Few men fight for something
as most brethren fight for their respective positions,
unless they are most earnestly believed.
In our dealing with people who are r eligious, but
religiously wr ong, we must always bear in mind that
in the great majority of instances they are genuinely
sincere. And when we must deal with those who oppose
us and whose impressions of t he things we teach
are as far from the t ruth as it is possible to be, we
must remember that they hold those impressions honestly.
Car eful expressions of what we conceive the New
Testament to teach are especially necessary ·in these
days. Our contact. with non-members of t he church
has in most instances taught us a healthy respect for
what we would like to call bigoted people. Generally,
they are people who are deeply religious and deeply
sincere, and who hate deceit and every evil way. Having
been taught that the church of Christ is a combination
of every doctrine that is obnoxious a:nd false,
they have learned to hate and despise it. This cannot
honestly be called by the term we most often use to
denote it-"prejudice." It is not prejudice, it is misunderstanding
based upon misinformation. This can,
and must, be removed.
Once it is removed, these very people often constitute
the most fervent and consecrated members of the
church. We dare not be angry with them, for they
oppose an institution that simply does not exist. They
do not oppose the church of Chr ist, but rather oppose
what all of us would oppose-a thing that does not
exist, an institution that sprang up as the result of
m·isinformation and misunderstandings, and that
teaches obnoxious doctrines.
The average non-member's image of the church is
of something that poses a mass of contradictions and
impossibilities. They are opposed to something they
think is the church of Christ, but which in reality is
a monster concocted by enemies of the church. No
man can really be opposed to the church for which our
Lord died. No man wants to be. They are opposed
578
generally to what they think we teach. To disabuse
their minds, and to teach these honest s·incere people
the real truth about the church of our Lord is one of
our tasks.
Technically the church of Christ teaches nothing.
There are no "church of Christ doctrines." We are
t aught the doctrine of Christ through the New Testament.
He is the only head of the church, and as such
is its only law-giver. The church has no ordinances,
they are ord·inances of the Lord. In our teaching we
simply try to echo what the Bible teaches. Then "it is
not I that liveth but Christ that liveth in me." It is
not the church that teaches, but rather Christ that
teaches through the church.
And in this sense alone "we teach." We teach not
as "one having authority," but rather we teach by authority
the doctrines of Christ. Thus what "we teach"
ought to be a matter of interest to a great number of
people, first as a matter of justice, and second, because
of the great claims made by us for the doctrine we
teach.
No man has the right to teach against what another
teaches until he has heard from the man himself j ust
what he teaches. Many teachers have been misrepresented.
Jesus was. The Apostles were. Most denominations
are. We are. Our enemies have told the world
a lot of things about what we teach that tare not so.
And many have listened to our enem·ies. Hence it is
a matter of j ustice that non-members of the church
hear from us what we teach rather than from our enemies.
Among those whom we might reach are a large
group who had rather risk their immortal souls on the
imperfect part-truths they know they now hold, than
to accept a group of doctrines they have been told are
irrational. They may suspect that the truth lies in
the things we teach, but having received so much misinformation
from our enemies, they cannot bring
themselves to seriously consider our teaching. Their
faith concerning us has been settled for them by our
enemies.
Perhaps one who honestly investigated what we do
actually teach would be surprised. What appears to
him to be absurd now is perhaps not what we teach at
all, but rather what we do not teach. Many of the
irrational teachings attributed to us by our enemies
we despise. We neither believe nor teach them. Justice
demands that we be given an opportunity to demonstrate
for ourselves what we believe and teach. It
is unfair that non-members of the church get all their
information from others than ourselves. When they
do they are doomed in most instances to receive information from other non-members, who, in turn, received
their information from a tainted source.
No other group makes such claims for its doctrines
.as do we. Those claims are either utterly false or absolutely
true. There is no half way ground. We never
claim relative truth. The earnest seeker will give us
an opportunity to teach· him, because, after all, the
things we teach might be true. If they are true, then
they constitute the one absolute body of true doctrine,
and as such, represent the one really worthwhile-yea
essential-scheme of redemption.