OUR TROUBLED TIMES
Without controversy ours are the most universally
troubled times of history. Foundations of economic,
political and social existence are more insecure than
they have ever been before. We face the inescapable
conclusion that if there is a rock of ages to which we
may cling it must be anchored somewhere outs-ide this
world.
The study of physics is, in the final analys·is, a study
of the laws of limitations. All things physical must
come to an end. Even among atheists and infidels
there is common acceptance of the fact that th·is earth
and all that is in it must some day come to an end.
The accelerated pace of scientific progress increases
the universal fear that the end may be closer than
we think. This, perhaps, is responsible for the stampede
back to church.
There is danger right now that even people of faith
may become materialistic in their approach to the
problem. Atheistic nations such as Russia can well
use to their own advantage this fear complex. If there
is no God, and whether the world stands entirely. upon
us mortals, we might well bow to most any demand
made of us since capitulation is preferable to annihilation.
But the world is not in such an explosive condition
in the opinion of those who believe that God is still
in his Heaven. There is a supreme confidence generated
by the fa"ith that God alone in his providence will
uecide when the end will be. It is not within man's
prerogative to determine whether the earth shall stand
or fall. All he may do, or fail to do, will not affect
the outcome either way.
If God determines that the race destroy itself, and
that the end come in a fissionary holocaust, there is
very little that the nations can do about it, except
to see that it happens.
I' f He decrees that this old earth run on for a billion
years more and slowly die as its energy peters outthat's
the way it will be. In either case there ·is no
evidence that the race shall last forever, and there is
plenty of scripture to the contrary. Whether the end
come suddenly or is postponed for several millenniums
is unimportant. The important thing is that we be
ready for it when it comes.
It would be a bad thing if governments based their
policies upon fear of the extinction of the human race.
Much of the pressure be·ing brought upon our government
today by various pacifist groups is based upon
this materialistic fear rather than upon any faith in
God.
530
It is, perhaps, a good thing that. our present troubled
times has brought to the attention of all men the absolute,
inescapable end that must come to human life on
on this planet. The stark possibility that it may come
tomorrow, rather than in the distant future; and sud,
denly, rather than slowly; has served to shake the
world out of moral lethargy and started a back-tochurch
and back-to-the-Bible movement of unequaled
proportions.
This is our opportunity.
Never, since the beginning 9f the church have men
been so willing to listen as they are now. The church
will be held doubly in~xcusable if it does not take advantage
of th·is evangelistic opportunity.
These troubled times are an incentive for a11 of us
to "watch and pray, for we know not the hour when
the Lord shall come." The important thing is not
whetheL· the end comes as men violently struggle for
possession of the earth, and in their struggle destroy
it, or whether it comes as the last remnant of humanity
boils its last pot of porridge over the dying embers
of a world grown co ld. The important thing is that
we have our lights trimmed and be fo und watching.
Man is the only part of this vast physical universe
that fills a role more permanent than his environment.
lf man's final role in the cosmos is the service of mankind,
then his only worth is in the continued existe·nce
of rna,nlcilnd. If that be his goal, then he and it are
doomed to frustration, and ·it matters little whether
the sentence be immediate or remote. Conversely, if
there is a spark in man that is immortal, and his continued
existence here can serve to pre-warn his feiJows
that they not be caught unprepared, then it is reasonable
that human effort to postpone the catastrophe is
1in keeping with faith. And in doing so, they will be
serving the purpose for which God intended them as
watchmen upon the waJJs.
But let it never be suggested that sC'ientific progress,
or even atomic war are necessarily evil. God has
been using men and nations to carry out his will since
the beginning of time.