:l!tere !Jj Still need :lo {]o Bact
We are encouraged with constant s·igns of progress.
'l'here is no doubt that "the church is on the march."
We like that expression. There is strictly nothing
wrong with it. That's what the church ought to be
on. Sarcastic comments about the expression should
not deter good brethren from marching. It is a good
idea and a good slogan. More power to those churches
that are on the mar.ch. We wish more of them were.
It would, of course, be a tragedy if in our marching
we quit looking where we were going. We might
march right off the battlefield!
Another point that strikes us is the possibility that
we may become so enthused with crying "Onward!"
- "Forward !"-"Away!" that we will lose sight of
any need to go back anywhere.
When one takes the wrong fork ·in the road, regardless
of his enthusiasm for the way he is going and the
speed wit.h which he is doing it, there is a need for
him to go back. We once walked into the Brazos River
to baptize some people and waded into quicksand.
1There was nothing quite so important right then as
to go back to solid ground. How many times through
the ages has the warning been shouted to people approaching
danger : "Go Back! Go Back!"
When Moses, upon seeing the idolat ry of Israel,
broke t he tablets containing the Ten Commandments,
he went right back up into the mounta·in where he
got the law in the first place for a renewed set. We
must never forget. the need for a constant "back to
the Bible" attitude. It is easy in our marching to slip
a little here and a little there until we are completely
outside the strait and narrow way. Lot did not jump
from the hills of Canaan to the m'iddle of Sodom in a
single bound; he merely "pitched his tents" in that
direction. Yet, ere long, there he is-living on main
street.
The Prodigal son, when he found himself in a pig
pen, filling himself with the same husks the swine did
eat, came to himself, and said, "I will arise and go
to my Father." He was soon on the march-back.
Many times the only direction that can re-establish us
on the road to he.aven is back-back to the Bibleback
to the Father. It is good sense to periodically
touch home base. In the final analysis, that's the only
way to score.
We believe ·it would be a good practice in every congregation
to have a meeting periodically in which everything
the congregation is doing is carefully reviewed
in the light of God's word. It would be hard,
in the way we are traveling, to look at the road map
too often.
We cannot lay claim to being especially deep thinkers.
We are today, in many respects, about where a
562
couple of dozen debaters over the last hundred years
have led us. We make debaters our idols and any
argument they make we accept as sound regardless of
whether it is or not. And a lot of them ~re not. That
has been demonstrated many times in the past few
years.
And we make "the p·ioneers" our idols. Among
them were some giants. And among them there were
some of smaller stature for whom circumstance and
personal position provided stilts. But they were all
human. And they all made mistakes. And if we revere
:hem and follow them, any mistake they made
we w1ll make. It bothers us no little to see such a halo
cast about the person of such mortals. They were not
inspired. They were not even infallible. Some of
them led whole segments of the church astray. If
brethren had been as careful to go back to the Bible
through the years as our slogan indicated that we
were, the brethren would have been saved many a
heartache.
Difficult times produce leaders. The Reformation
did. The Restoration did. And now the splintering
of the Restoration has. There are some alarming indications
of the willingness of brethren to follow men.
No man among us is worth following, unless we are
dead sure he is following the Lord. It is a good thing
that in this age of relativism we can still go back to
the fixed standards of God.
Not until we have gone back-all the way backto
J erusalem, to Galilee, to Judea and Samaria, and
burned the words of Jesus Christ into our minds and
hearts anew, are we in any position to do any marching.
Our hearts and minds are so full of "issues" and
the foul things that " issues" produce we can't see
where we are going. We need to go back to the Mount
of Transfiguration and renew acquaintance with Jesus
Christ the Son of the Living God and get the Divine
unessage afresh : "hear ye Him." Then and t.hen
alone will all else-people and things and "issues"fade
into oblivion and we can "see Jesus only" once
again.
We who have boasted so much about going back to
the Bible ought to do it. Churches on the march should
take care not to lose sight of our marching orders.