GJilorial- R.ELIGION and' POLITICS
If the Roman Catholic religion were simply a religion,
and l)othing more, it would not be a political
issue. It iS:·~ political issue because the Roman Catholic
church ·is, and claims to be, a political force. Because
of that, i.t ·is, and ought to be, impossible to keep
it out· of an~:·;campaign in which one of the candidates
is a Roma~;~:Catholic, whether it be for the office of
Mayor of a h_amlet or President of the nation.
So thorou~hly has the Roman Catholic church mixed
politics and ~religion it is absolutely impossible to distinguish
on~:trom the other in its activities in any nation
on earth. When public· attention is called to this
fact, the Roman Catholic church wants to "avoid the
religious issue." The Roman Catholic church wants
to brand everybody a "big~t" who tries to make political
what. the Roman Catholic church has made political
every year, in every country, where it has members.
The doctrines of the Roman Catholic church are absolutely
incompatible with the American concept of
separation of church and state. One cannot be loyal
to both, regardless of how he. may try. He can't ride
at the same time two horses going in directly opposite
directions.
If a Communiat were running for President, would
Communism be an issue in the election? Ought it to
be? If so, why? The answer is obvious. The doctrines
of Karl Marx are incompatible with the doctrines
of American democracy. Why then, should
the Roman Catholic religion-not simply "religion"but
the Roman Catholic religion-why should it be a
political issue? The· answer is obvious. It is not simply
a religion-it is a mixture of religion and politics.
And its political doctrines are fully as contrary to the
doctrines ·of American democracy as are the·political
doctrines of Communism. (Both even advocate the
use of the sword to subvert governments to themselves.).
If a Communist candidate affirmed that he
would not allow his Communist faith to sway his political
decisions, would you believe him?
America has every right to be afraid of a Doctor
Jekyl and Mr. Hyde contraption that poses as a religion
one moment and as a political force, complete
with foreign sovereignty and department of state, the
next. This makes Roman Catholic religion-not just
"religion" but Roman Catholic religion-a political
issue.
Brethren are being .lulled into unconscious submission
to cunningly worded POLITICAL pr~paganda
when they accept the "throw out the religious issue"
line of the politically Roman Catholic controlled Democrat.
party. Roman Catholic action groups and Romogo
·
an Catholic propagandists-as political as they come
-are throwing up a smoke screen to disguise the Roman
Catholic push that is making an all-out effort to
conquer the greatest nation on earth. Gullible brethren
are falling like suckers for this POLITICAL line.
Under the Roman Catholic doctrine of Mental Reservation
a candidate can make any kind of statement
on earth, arid regardless of how far from the truth it
is, he has committed no sin. What is this doctrine of
Mental Reservation? Here it is, according to Roman
Catholic authorities:
"So that a false statement knowingly made· to one
who has not a right to the truth will not be a lie"
(Catholic Epcyclopedia, X, 696).
"However, we are also under obligation to keep secrets
faithfully, and sometimes the easiest way o:f fulfiliing
that duty is to say what is false, or tell a lie"
(Catholic Encyclopedia, X, 195) .
"When mental reservation is permissible, it is lawful
to corroborate one's utterances by an oath, if there
b~ a:n adequate cause" (Article on Perjury, Catholic
Encyclopedia, XI, 696) .
Under this same doctrine a candidate, if elected,
could conduct his office in the same way. Friends,
this is not the kind of respect for truth our fathers,
who built this country, appreciated. If American
Catholics do not believe this doctrine, let them publicly
repudiate it. There is more to this "Roman Catholic
religious issue" than meets the eye.
Sweet water doesn't come out of a bitter fountain.
Men don't gather grapes off of thorns.
Any man's assurances that his church-especially
one politically ambitious, and notoriously so-would
not pressure him into a wrong course is, in itself, an
admission that tremendous pressure does exist, and is
acknowledged to be exerted. To a Roman Catholic
candidate the voice of the church is the voice of God.
Whether he ought to hear God or man, judge ye! If
he would deliberately' and beforehand, vow, and do so
without mental reservation, that should there be a
clash between his church conscience and his American
conscience he would "without hesitation" obey his patriotic
conscience, such an admission would automatically
cast serious doubt upon his moral qualification
for public office.