The Crying Need of Teaching Elders
While we are so vociferous about restoring New
Testament patterns in all things, we should consider
seriously returning elders to the position they occupied
in the New Testament congregations, and returning
preachers to the place they also occupied. Many
of our present d'ay troubles spring from congregations
, listening to preachers instead of elders. The preach.
ers are feeding the flocks.
. Despite Paul's admonition to the elders at Eohesus
in Acts 20, to "Take heed to yourselves ~nd-to all
the flock, over which the ·Holy Spirit hath made you
overseers, to feed the church of God . . . , , we keep
right on appointing elders who do not, because they
cannot, teach the church. The result is that the
teaching has to be left to others-which usually means
the preacher.
Brethren need to contend-and keep on contending
-that elders do this teaching, for this is a part of
the faith once delivered to the saints (Jude 3).
Among the qualifications laid down by Paul in 1
Tim. 3, is this one: "Apt to teach." In Titus 1 he tells
us why: "Holding fast the faithful word as he hath
been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine
both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers." We
would not have much of the trouble we now endure
if we liad insisted upon elders of this qualification in
every congregation. In many instances a hobbyist
got a start in a congregation because the elders didn't
know whether what he was teaching was the truth
or a falsehood. The Lord has planned it. so that the
congregation will never be any safer from error than
its elders. When they do not know enough about the
Bible to know what is truth and what is error, how
can we expect the congregati~n not to be "led about
by every wind of doctrine" ?
The teaching program is all important, whether it
be the teaching of the outside world or the church.
We need the best possible teaching in either place.
Not enough time, thought, and effort--to say nothing
of money-is put into the average teaching program
in the congregation. And when a teaching program
is instituted, too many times it is instituted and carried
out by the preacher. We need more elders actually
teaching the church.
If we are to save the church, and the soul:s of the
elders of the church, we must insist that the church
have elders that teach. Elders do not sit like a roadoverseer
over a congregation. They must lead and
admonish and instruct. The very office is of that
nature. Men, trying to be good elders, will learn to
teach if they do not know. how~ The main thing that
keeps most of us from teaching is that we do not know
enough to teach. We can't teach something that we
do not know. One of the best ways to learn to teach
314
is to learn the Bible. Then the teaching will come
naturally.
We believe that every reader of thi.a article knows
of more than one congregation that has not grown
materially in years. And we believe that readers will
bear witness that this lack of growth is a direct result
· of a lack of teaching eldership. Churches can
hardly be expected to grow without qualified, spiritual
elders to teach the brethren how to grow.
The future of the church in the trying times that
are before us depends largely upon good strong qualified
elders, who can lead the flock in the right way.
We have too many who are top good to serve,· not good
enough to lead!
We have always contended that the church should
support its elders, and that they should ·labor in word
and in doctrine. "Let the elders that rule well be
counted worthy of double honour, especially they who
labour in the word and doctrine. For the scripture
saith, thou shalt ·not muzzle the ox that treadeth out
the corn. And, the labourer is worthy of his reward"
(1 Tim. 5:17, 18). Yet we know of many places
where the elders support the church rather than the
church supporting the elders.
Elders to teach must give much time to study, for
they cannot teach what they do not know. We have
heard elders complain that they had to make a living,
and that they therefore didn't have time to study or
to do the other work an elder is commanded to do.
This is true. And congregations can expect to have
good, teaching elders only when they support them
as the New Testament commands us to do, so that
they can give themselves wholly to this work.
Real leadership is never found by the easy route.
You can search the lives of those who demonstrate
leadership and you will find that they have come
through great tribulation. There have been dark
hours of despair, many periods of soul searching, long
hours of study, overwork to the point of breaking,
heartbreaking experiences with untrue friends and
unjust criticism, and a willingness to work until the
last co-laborer has dropped his tools and gone homeand
then to keep on working-alone! This is the
stuff good elders are made of. And, oh, how we need
good elders!