Are They Worth Their Salt?
The wor.k of an elder has something in common with
the weather: everybody talks about it but nothin~ is
ever done about .it.
Recently Lwe.; ~eard someone say, "how can the
··,.church exp~ct to grow when it keeps appointing as
elders little~lhen who have worked a lifetime in a small
grocery st6~e or filling station, ~nd have not made
much of a $.ilccess at that, rather than men· who have
proven thetP.~elves to pe successful business men able
to think big~ handle big problems and promote big
projects?" ::·:
Our thought at the time, and our thinking now, was
and is that this is perhaps the thing that has safeguarded
the purity of the New Testament church
through the years. Too many have the mistaken notion
that a congregation and a business combine should
be run on the same basis. We thoroughly agree that
any business should be run by Christian principles,
and we agree that there should be business judgment
in the direction of the affairs of the congregation, but
a man does not make a good elder in the church because
he is a successful business man. The qualifications
are different.
The very nature of an elder's work as pastor of the
flock unfits some business men, and professional men
too, for ideal service. We notice that in certain professions
there are very few outstanding elders.
Most of the above misconception springs from a failure
to understand what the work of an elder really is.
It has been oft repeated that we who claim to have restored
the New Testament church have given most of
the work of elders to the preacher, and now the elders
are doing the deacon's work, and the deacons are wondeTing
what work there is left for them to do. All
agree that this is all too true. Yet, we are doing nothing
much about it.
It is our firm conviction that the church will never
grow as it should, atnd we will always be talking about
what is 'Wrong with it, until we correct this situation.
Preachers complain that they have not the time to
preach if they must support themselves. They have
such a job making a living that it leaves no time for
the "Lord's work." And so we support them that they
may have time to preach-that is, rather, to feed the
flock for that is 95% of what our preachers are doing.
B~t when elders complain that they have not the
time to do the work of an elder because they have to
make a living, none think of freeing them from se.cular
employment, and supporting them, Cl8 the B'tble
teaches they should be supported. Consider these
verses: "Feed the flock of God which is among you,
61S8
taking the oversight thereof, .not by constraint, but
willingly; not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind"
(1 Peter 5 :2). (Note that "filthy lucre" was a consideration
in the work done by an elder.) "Let the
elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honour,
especially they who labor in the word and doctrine"
(1 Tim. 5 :17). "Double· Honour" here refers
to the support they received. The next verse, speaking
of elders, not preachers, says, "For the scripture
saith, :Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out
the corn. And the labourer is worthy of his hire." A
good elder is certainly worth his salt!
No man among us doubts in the least that elders
were freed from "secular work" and were supported
by the church while they did the work of elders. In
very few instances among us is this admitted NEW
TESTAMENT EXAMPLE followed. How can we expect
the Lord to bless with success our efforts at restoration
when we brazenly ignore this admitted New Testament
practice? We repeat, we do not believe the
church will grow as it should, and develop as it should,
ftlntil men who are blameless, sober, vigilant, of good
report,. given to hospitality, apt to teach, no striker,
no brawler, not covetous but patient, are freed from
the necessity of secular pursuit that they may "give
themselves continually to prayer and to the ministry
of the word."
We seem so anxious to demonstrate to the world
that "the church of Christ is scriptural in-organization"
when all of us know that preachers are doing
elders' work rather than evangelizing, and elders are
"serving tables." It is .not enough to say "these things
ought not to be," and never do anything to remedy the
situation. Preachers don't like it. They had much
rather it were different. But nobody was doing the
work of elders so preachers had to. And nobody was
doing it because congregations failed to free men who
are good elder material from the toils of secular employment
that they might give themselves to this work.
We will see a great upsurge in missionary evangelism
only when the New Testament order is restored in this
as well as in all other things. With elders actually
shepherding the flock, then good business men serving
.as deacons could take care of the things many now
think are elders' work, but which are not. It takes a
different kind of man to be an elder.