Physician, Heal Thyself
Regardless of how· unpleasant the task, it is forced upon us
to take notice of an article by one of the brethren entitled,
"Religious Hyp.ochondria," which was largely a. criticism of .this
Editorial pa·g~. It i~ with extreme reluctance that we do so,
but we fear. our failure to point out occasionally the glaring inconsistences
of · this' . new anti-orphan-home-under-an-eldership
doctrine that }las ·l~~ly sprung up, along with its contingent
corollaries, may ·lead some to think these weak and unscriptural
positions are tr~e. We would that none would think that simply
because w~:~4o not spend a lot of time answering them, that
they cannot be answered. We believe the few things said about
them are sufficient for those who study the scriptures, rather
than. accep. t a ~. ...o_ rus of repetitions in lieu of reason.
"Hypochondnii" is a pretty big word for us country boys,
but Webster ~ys it means, "Morbid anxiety as to one's own
health, with conjuring up of imaginary ailments." The author
develops his article, beginning each of ten points with "I am
deeply concerned." Evidently he has diagnosed his own case!
We would say, "Physician, heal thyself" (incidentally, that's
scripture-Luke 4:23). It is the fuzzy thinking (we almost
said Tom-foolery) exhibited by this article that is hurting the
church today. (We want to be specific.)
A man who changes his position every year or two is naturally
afraid of any suggestion that he go back to the sermon
outlines he preached ten years ago. When one poses as a gospel
preacher, it is assumed that he is preaching the same gospel
he preached ten years ago, and that he will be preaching, the
Lord willing, t~n years from now. One who can't preach his
old outlines is definitely either unsafe now, or was definitely
unsafe then. If one is so unstable in his positions that he cannot
be sure that the position he occup~ed ten years ago-or
the position he occupies today, or the one he may occupy ten
years from now-relative to these things that so vitally affect
the very nature and structure of the church is the right one,
how can brethren trust his logic or leadership? He certainly
would not be considered as "stedfast and unmoveable" (that,
incidentally, is scripture-! Cor. 16:68). If one cannot preach
the same sermons he preached ten years ago, or even five years
ago, then he must come in the class of those who are "tossed
to and fro, and carried about by every wind of doctrine" (Eph.
4:14). We still insist that if preachers will get out their old
sermon outlines on benevolent and missionary work and preach
them, the divisions now occurring in the brotherhood will be
healed. They are being caused by two new doetrines, one about
ten years old and the othe'r above five.
We never thought we would live to see the day in which a
brother in a responsible position would make light of the old
Restoration slogans that we have used so effectively and so
long. A slogan is a short, uninspired piece of literature. Whether
it is good or bad depends upon whether it is scriptural or unscriptural.
We believe our old Restoration slogans are scriptural.
If one asks, "Why not-recognize the Scriptures as being
all-sufficient to furnish us unto every good work-(2 Tim. 3:16-
17)? Why do we have a slogan?", we might suggest, Why
write an article? Why write this article? Aren't the scriptures
all-sufficient? Would one be "Anti-slogan"? Does one
never preach "Where the Bible speaks we speak, and where
the Bible is silent we are silent? If one is "deeply concerned"
over the "anti" tendencies among us, here is one he can really
be concerned over. So can others. This position, fully carried
through, would force one to become anti-literature. This is
the sort of fuzzy thinking that is hurting the church today.
6'74
Our friend who suffers from the phobia of hypochondria is
"deeply concerned" about some writer~ not making themselves
plain enough in specifying what they are against. In a previous
article under the caption, "I'm really for it, but ... ", he suggested
that "the church needs men who when they say they are
for a thing really are for it, and when they are against a thing
really are against it." Then he suggests that nearly all who
do not operate according to his standard in this are liars and
hypocrites. Recently this same brother commended in glowing
terms a book which advocates that it is all right for the
church to put the college in the budget. Now is he 100% for,
or 100% against, that· book? People in his area should know
which. If he is for some of the things in that book, and against
others he is about like the rest of us. Is he willing to wear
those ~gly names that he wishes to apply to others fo;r being
partly for and partly against such a thing? This is the kind
of fuzzy, inconsistent thinking that is hurting the church •..
One should be concerned about bandwagons, and be sensitive
about them only if he has spent considerable time getting on
and off of them. One who has had no tangible connection with
the things would hardly be concerned with them. Hypochondria
must be in its last stages when one is "deeply concerned about
the trend to make negativism the standard of faithfulness,"
and then-get it, for this is good-develops his case around
ten negative points! This is the fuzziness that is hurting the
church.
Our "deeply concerned" brother is worried "about the failure
of some to keep the church and the home clear and distinct in
their thinking." This a symptom of how far hypochondria has
progressed, because nearly everybody knows the diffe~ence between
the church and a home, just as they know the d1fference
between a baptistry and a ·baptism. The church may own and
operate a baptistry because it is the business of the church to
baptize people. Likewise the church may own and operate an
orphan care service because it is the business of t~e church
to care for orphans. We believe James 1:27 apphes to the
church. If so, the church can meet the conditions to obey it.
Where does the Bible speak of the church's operating an orphan
care service? In the same verse where it speaks of the church's
operating a building.
Our brother needs to go back to a slogan he used ten years
ago, "Whatever is essential to carrying out a. command is included
in the command." This will cover buildmgs, song books,
baptistries or child care facilities.
If one insists that Eph. 6:1 teaches "parents have oversight
of a home," he must remember that Paul is speaking of children
who have parents and not about orphans. Just how fuzzy
must one be to lift a verse completely out of its setting (parent-
child relationship) and apply it to an entirely different subject
(orphans). One needs the verses on orphans-not those on
children who have parents. Orphans are orphans because they
have lost the very thing mentioned in Eph. 6:1. If they haven't
lost this then they are not orphans. The immaturity of such
thinking is self-evident. How long will the brotherhood tolerate
such?